<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-3-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<p>Scene <span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>. Sealand’s House.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b>, meeting <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>Well, Phillis! What, with a face as if you had never seen me before!⁠—What a work have I to do now? She has seen some new visitant at their house whose airs she has caught, and is resolved to practise them upon me. Numberless are the changes she’ll dance through before she’ll answer this plain question: <span xml:lang="la">videlicet</span>, have you delivered my master’s letter to your lady? Nay, I know her too well to ask an account of it in an ordinary way; I’ll be in my airs as well as she. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i>⁠—Well, madam, as unhappy as you are at present pleased to make me, I would not, in the general, be any other than what I am. I would not be a bit wiser, a bit richer, a bit taller, a bit shorter than I am at this instant. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking steadfastly at her.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Did ever anybody doubt, Master Thomas, but that you were extremely satisfied with your sweet self?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>I am, indeed. The thing I have least reason to be satisfied with is my fortune, and I am glad of my poverty. Perhaps if I were rich I should overlook the finest woman in the world, that wants nothing but riches to be thought so.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>How prettily was that said! But I’ll have a great deal more before I’ll say one word. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>I should, perhaps, have been stupidly above her had I not been her equal; and by not being her equal, never had opportunity of being her slave. I am my master’s servant for hire⁠—I am my mistress’s from choice, would she but approve my passion.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>I think it’s the first time I ever heard you speak of it with any sense of the anguish, if you really do suffer any.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>Ah, Phillis! can you doubt, after what you have seen?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>I know not what I have seen, nor what I have heard; but since I am at leisure, you may tell me when you fell in love with me; how you fell in love with me; and what you have suffered or are ready to suffer for me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>Oh, the unmerciful jade! when I am in haste about my master’s letter. But I must go through it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i>⁠—Ah!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a> too well I remember when, and how, and on what occasion I was first surprised. It was on the 1st of April, 1715, I came into <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sealand’s service; I was then a hobbledehoy, and you a pretty little tight girl, a favourite handmaid of the housekeeper. At that time we neither of us knew what was in us. I remember I was ordered to get out of the window, one pair of stairs, to rub the sashes clean; the person employed on the inner side was your charming self, whom I had never seen before.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>I think I remember the silly accident. What made ye, you oaf, ready to fall down into the street?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>You know not, I warrant you⁠—you could not guess what surprised me. You took no delight when you immediately grew wanton in your conquest, and put your lips close, and breathed upon the glass, and when my lips approached, a dirty cloth you rubbed against my face, and hid your beauteous form! When I again drew near, you spit, and rubbed, and smiled at my undoing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>What silly thoughts you men have!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>We were Pyramus and Thisbe⁠—but ten times harder was my fate. Pyramus could peep only through a wall; I saw her, saw my Thisbe in all her beauty, but as much kept from her as if a hundred walls between⁠—for there was more: there was her will against me. Would she but yet relent! O Phillis! Phillis! shorten my torment, and declare you pity me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>I believe it’s very sufferable; the pain is not so exquisite but that you may bear it a little longer.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>Oh! my charming Phillis, if all depended on my fair one’s will, I could with glory suffer⁠—but, dearest creature, consider our miserable state.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>How! Miserable!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>We are miserable to be in love, and under the command of others than those we love; with that generous passion in the heart, to be sent to and fro on errands, called, checked, and rated for the meanest trifles. Oh, Phillis! you don’t know how many china cups and glasses my passion for you has made me break. You have broke my fortune as well as my heart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thomas, I cannot but own to you that I believe your master writes and you speak the best of any men in the world. Never was woman so well pleased with a letter as my young lady was with his; and this is an answer to it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gives him a letter.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>This was well done, my dearest; consider, we must strike out some pretty livelihood for ourselves by closing their affairs. It will be nothing for them to give us a little being of our own, some small tenement, out of their large possessions. Whatever they give us, it will be more than what they keep for themselves. One acre with Phillis would be worth a whole county without her.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>O, could I but believe you!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>If not the utterance, believe the touch of my lips. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>There’s no contradicting you. How closely you argue, Tom!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>And will closer, in due time. But I must hasten with this letter, to hasten towards the possession of you. Then, Phillis, consider how I must be revenged, look to it, of all your skittishness, shy looks, and at best but coy compliances.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Oh, Tom, you grow wanton, and sensual, as my lady calls it; I must not endure it. Oh! foh! you are a man⁠—an odious, filthy, male creature⁠—you should behave, if you had a right sense or were a man of sense, like <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton, with distance and indifference; or, let me see, some other becoming hard word, with seeming in-in-inadvertency, and not rush on one as if you were seizing a prey.⁠—But hush! the ladies are coming.⁠—Good Tom, don’t kiss me above once, and be gone. Lard, we have been fooling and toying, and not considered the main business of our masters and mistresses.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>Why, their business is to be fooling and toying as soon as the parchments are ready.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Well remembered, parchments; my lady, to my knowledge, is preparing writings between her coxcomb cousin, Cimberton, and my mistress, though my master has an eye to the parchments already prepared between your master, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bevil, and my mistress; and, I believe, my mistress herself has signed and sealed, in her heart, to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Myrtle.⁠—Did I not bid you kiss me but once, and be gone? But I know you won’t be satisfied.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>No, you smooth creature, how should I? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kissing her hand.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Well, since you are so humble, or so cool, as to ravish my hand only, I’ll take my leave of you like a great lady, and you a man of quality. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They salute formally.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
							<td>Pox of all this state. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Offers to kiss her more closely.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>No, prithee, Tom, mind your business. We must follow that interest which will take, but endeavour at that which will be most for us, and we like most. Oh, here is my young mistress! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b> taps her neck behind, and kisses his fingers.</i> Go, ye liquorish fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Who was that you were hurrying away?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>One that I had no mind to part with.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Why did you turn him away then?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>For your ladyship’s service⁠—to carry your ladyship’s letter to his master. I could hardly get the rogue away.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Why, has he so little love for his master?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>No; but he hath so much love for his mistress.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>But I thought I heard him kiss you. Why did you suffer that?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Why, madam, we vulgar take it to be a sign of love⁠—We servants, we poor people, that have nothing but our persons to bestow or treat for, are forced to deal and bargain by way of sample, and therefore as we have no parchments or wax necessary in our agreements, we squeeze with our hands and seal with our lips, to ratify vows and promises.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>But can’t you trust one another without such earnest down?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>We don’t think it safe, any more than you gentry, to come together without deeds executed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Thou art a pert merry hussy.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>I wish, madam, your lover and you were as happy as Tom and your servant are.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>You grow impertinent.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>I have done, madam; and I won’t ask you what you intend to do with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Myrtle, what your father will do with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bevil, nor what you all, especially my lady, mean by admitting <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton as particularly here as if he were married to you already; nay, you are married actually as far as people of quality are.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>How is that?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>You have different beds in the same house.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Pshaw! I have a very great value for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bevil, but have absolutely put an end to his pretensions in the letter I gave you for him. But my father, in his heart, still has a mind to him, were it not for this woman they talk of; and I am apt to imagine he is married to her, or never designs to marry at all.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Myrtle⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>He had my parents’ leave to apply to me, and by that he has won me and my affections; who is to have this body of mine without them, it seems, is nothing to me. My mother says ’tis indecent for me to let my thoughts stray about the person of my husband; nay, she says a maid, rigidly virtuous, though she may have been where her lover was a thousand times, should not have made observations enough to know him from another man when she sees him in a third place.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>That is more than the severity of a nun, for not to see when one may is hardly possible; not to see when one can’t is very easy. At this rate, madam, there are a great many whom you have not seen who⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Mamma says the first time you see your husband should be at that instant he is made so. When your father, with the help of the minister, gives you to him, then you are to see him; then you are to observe and take notice of him; because then you are to obey him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>But does not my lady remember you are to love as well as obey?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>To love is a passion, it is a desire, and we must have no desires.⁠—Oh, I cannot endure the reflection! With what insensibility on my part, with what more than patience have I been exposed and offered to some awkward booby or other in every county of Great Britain!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>Indeed, madam, I wonder I never heard you speak of it before with this indignation.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Every corner of the land has presented me with a wealthy coxcomb. As fast as one treaty has gone off, another has come on, till my name and person have been the tittle-tattle of the whole town. What is this world come to?⁠—no shame left⁠—to be bartered for like the beasts of the field, and that in such an instance as coming together to an entire familiarity and union of soul and body. Oh! and this without being so much as well-wishers to each other, but for increase of fortune.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>But, madam, all these vexations will end very soon in one for all. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton is your mother’s kinsman, and three hundred years an older gentleman than any lover you ever had; for which reason, with that of his prodigious large estate, she is resolved on him, and has sent to consult the lawyers accordingly; nay, has (whether you know it or no) been in treaty with Sir Geoffry, who, to join in the settlement, has accepted of a sum to do it, and is every moment expected in town for that purpose.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>How do you get all this intelligence?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</td>
							<td>By an art I have, I thank my stars, beyond all the waiting-maids in Great Britain⁠—the art of listening, madam, for your ladyship’s service.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>I shall soon know as much as you do; leave me, leave me, Phillis, begone. Here, here! I’ll turn you out. My mother says I must not converse with my servants, though I must converse with no one else.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Phillis</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>—How unhappy are we who are born to great fortunes! No one looks at us with indifference, or acts towards us on the foot of plain dealing; yet, by all I have been heretofore offered to or treated for I have been used with the most agreeable of all abuses⁠—flattery. But now, by this phlegmatic fool I’m used as nothing, or a mere thing. He, forsooth, is too wise, too learned to have any regard for desires, and I know not what the learned oaf calls sentiments of love and passion⁠—Here he comes with my mother⁠—It’s much if he looks at me, or if he does, takes no more notice of me than of any other movable in the room.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>How do I admire this noble, this learned taste of yours, and the worthy regard you have to our own ancient and honourable house in consulting a means to keep the blood as pure and as regularly descended as may be.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Why, really, madam, the young women of this age are treated with discourses of such a tendency, and their imaginations so bewildered in flesh and blood, that a man of reason can’t talk to be understood. They have no ideas of happiness, but what are more gross than the gratification of hunger and thirst.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>With how much reflection he is a coxcomb! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>And in truth, madam, I have considered it as a most brutal custom that persons of the first character in the world should go as ordinarily, and with as little shame, to bed as to dinner with one another. They proceed to the propagation of the species as openly as to the preservation of the individual.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>She that willingly goes to bed to thee must have no shame, I’m sure. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>Oh, cousin Cimberton! cousin Cimberton! how abstracted, how refined is your sense of things! But, indeed, it is too true there is nothing so ordinary as to say, in the best governed families, my master and lady have gone to bed; one does not know but it might have been said of one’s self. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hiding her face with her fan.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Lycurgus, madam, instituted otherwise; among the Lacedaemonians the whole female world was pregnant, but none but the mothers themselves knew by whom; their meetings were secret, and the amorous congress always by stealth; and no such professed doings between the sexes as are tolerated among us under the audacious word, marriage.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>Oh, had I lived in those days and been a matron of Sparta, one might with less indecency have had ten children, according to that modest institution, than one, under the confusion of our modern, barefaced manner.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>And yet, poor woman, she has gone through the whole ceremony, and here I stand a melancholy proof of it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>We will talk then of business. That girl walking about the room there is to be your wife. She has, I confess, no ideas, no sentiments, that speak her born of a thinking mother.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>I have observed her; her lively look, free air, and disengaged countenance speak her very⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Very what?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>If you please, madam⁠—to set her a little that way.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>Lucinda, say nothing to him, you are not a match for him; when you are married, you may speak to such a husband when you’re spoken to. But I am disposing of you above yourself every way.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Madam, you cannot but observe the inconveniences I expose myself to, in hopes that your ladyship will be the consort of my better part. As for the young woman, she is rather an impediment than a help to a man of letters and speculation. Madam, there is no reflection, no philosophy, can at all times subdue the sensitive life, but the animal shall sometimes carry away the man. Ha! ay, the vermilion of her lips.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Pray, don’t talk of me thus.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>The pretty enough⁠—pant of her bosom.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Sir! madam, don’t you hear him?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Her forward chest.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Intolerable!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>High health.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>The grave, easy impudence of him!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Proud heart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Stupid coxcomb!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>I say, madam, her impatience, while we are looking at her, throws out all attractions⁠—her arms⁠—her neck⁠—what a spring in her step!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Don’t you run me over thus, you strange unaccountable!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>What an elasticity in her veins and arteries!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>I have no veins, no arteries.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>Oh, child! hear him, he talks finely; he’s a scholar, he knows what you have.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>The speaking invitation of her shape, the gathering of herself up, and the indignation you see in the pretty little thing⁠—Now, I am considering her, on this occasion, but as one that is to be pregnant.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>The familiar, learned, unseasonable puppy! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>And pregnant undoubtedly she will be yearly. I fear I shan’t, for many years, have discretion enough to give her one fallow season.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</td>
							<td>Monster! there’s no bearing it. The hideous sot! there’s no enduring it, to be thus surveyed like a steed at sale.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>At sale! She’s very illiterate⁠—But she’s very well limbed too; turn her in; I see what she is.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lucinda</b>, in a rage.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>Go, you creature, I am ashamed of you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>No harm done⁠—you know, madam, the better sort of people, as I observed to you, treat by their lawyers of weddings <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">adjusting himself at the glass</i>⁠—and the woman in the bargain, like the mansion house in the sale of the estate, is thrown in, and what that is, whether good or bad, is not at all considered.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>I grant it; and therefore make no demand for her youth and beauty, and every other accomplishment, as the common world think ’em, because she is not polite.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Madam, I know your exalted understanding, abstracted, as it is, from vulgar prejudices, will not be offended, when I declare to you, I marry to have an heir to my estate, and not to beget a colony, or a plantation. This young woman’s beauty and constitution will demand provision for a tenth child at least.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>With all that wit and learning, how considerate! What an economist! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i>⁠—Sir, I cannot make her any other than she is; or say she is much better than the other young women of this age, or fit for much besides being a mother; but I have given directions for the marriage settlements, and Sir Geoffry Cimberton’s counsel is to meet ours here, at this hour, concerning this joining in the deed, which, when executed, makes you capable of settling what is due to Lucinda’s fortune. Herself, as I told you, I say nothing of.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>No, no, no, indeed, madam, it is not usual; and I must depend upon my own reflection and philosophy not to overstock my family.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>I cannot help her, cousin Cimberton; but she is, for aught I see, as well as the daughter of anybody else.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>That is very true, madam.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a Servant, who whispers <b epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>The lawyers are come, and now we are to hear what they have resolved as to the point whether it’s necessary that Sir Geoffry should join in the settlement, as being what they call in the remainder. But, good cousin, you must have patience with ’em. These lawyers, I am told, are of a different kind; one is what they call a chamber counsel, the other a pleader. The conveyancer is slow, from an imperfection in his speech, and therefore shunned the bar, but extremely passionate and impatient of contradiction. The other is as warm as he; but has a tongue so voluble, and a head so conceited, he will suffer nobody to speak but himself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>You mean old Serjeant Target and Counsellor Bramble? I have heard of ’em.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>The same. Show in the gentlemen.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Servant.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter Servant, introducing <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Myrtle</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b> disguised as <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>Gentlemen, this is the party concerned, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton; and I hope you have considered of the matter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>Yes, madam, we have agreed that it must be by indent⁠—dent⁠—dent⁠—dent⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>Yes, madam, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Serjeant and myself have agreed, as he is pleased to inform you, that it must be an indenture tripartite,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a> and tripartite let it be, for Sir Geoffry must needs be a party; old Cimberton, in the year 1619, says, in that ancient roll in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Serjeant’s hands, as recourse thereto being had, will more at large appear⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>Yes, and by the deeds in your hands, it appears that⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Serjeant, I beg of you to make no inferences upon what is in our custody; but speak to the titles in your own deeds. I shall not show that deed till my client is in town.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>You know best your own methods.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>The single question is, whether the entail is such that my cousin, Sir Geoffry, is necessary in this affair?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>Yes, as to the lordship of Tretriplet, but not as to the messuage of Grimgribber.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>I say that Gr⁠—gr⁠—that Gr⁠—gr⁠—Grimgribber, Grimgribber is in us; that is to say the remainder thereof, as well as that of Tr⁠—tr⁠—Triplet.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>You go upon the deed of Sir Ralph, made in the middle of the last century, precedent to that in which old Cimberton made over the remainder, and made it pass to the heirs general, by which your client comes in; and I question whether the remainder even of Tretriplet is in him⁠—But we are willing to waive that, and give him a valuable consideration. But we shall not purchase what is in us forever, as Grimgribber is, at the rate, as we guard against the contingent of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton having no son⁠—Then we know Sir Geoffry is the first of the collateral male line in this family⁠—yet⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>Sir, Gr⁠—gr⁠—ber is⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>I apprehend you very well, and your argument might be of force, and we would be inclined to hear that in all its parts⁠—But, sir, I see very plainly what you are going into. I tell you, it is as probable a contingent that Sir Geoffry may die before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cimberton, as that he may outlive him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>Sir, we are not ripe for that yet, but I must say⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>Sir, I allow you the whole extent of that argument; but that will go no farther than as to the claimants under old Cimberton. I am of opinion that, according to the instruction of Sir Ralph, he could not dock the entail, and then create a new estate for the heirs general.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>Sir, I have not patience to be told that, when Gr⁠—gr⁠—ber⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>I will allow it you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Serjeant; but there must be the word heirs forever, to make such an estate as you pretend.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>I must be impartial, though you are counsel for my side of the question. Were it not that you are so good as to allow him what he has not said, I should think it very hard you should answer him without hearing him⁠—But, gentlemen, I believe you have both considered this matter, and are firm in your different opinions. ’Twere better, therefore, you proceeded according to the particular sense of each of you, and gave your thoughts distinctly in writing. And do you see, sirs, pray let me have a copy of what you say in English.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>Why, what is all we have been saying? In English! Oh! but I forget myself, you’re a wit. But, however, to please you, sir, you shall have it, in as plain terms as the law will admit of.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>But I would have it, sir, without delay.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</td>
							<td>That, sir, the law will not admit of. The Courts are sitting at Westminster, and I am this moment obliged to be at every one of them, and ’twould be wrong if I should not be in the hall to attend one of ’em at least; the rest would take it ill else. Therefore, I must leave what I have said to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Serjeant’s consideration, and I will digest his arguments on my part, and you shall hear from me again, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bramble</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>Agreed, agreed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bramble is very quick; he parted a little abruptly.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>He could not bear my argument; I pinched him to the quick about that Gr⁠—gr⁠—ber.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>I saw that, for he durst not so much as hear you. I shall send to you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Serjeant, as soon as Sir Geoffry comes to town, and then I hope all may be adjusted.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Target</td>
							<td>I shall be at my chambers, at my usual hours.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>Madam, if you please, I’ll now attend you to the tea table, where I shall hear from your ladyship reason and good sense, after all this law and gibberish.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sealand</td>
							<td>’Tis a wonderful thing, sir, that men of professions do not study to talk the substance of what they have to say in the language of the rest of the world. Sure, they’d find their account in it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cimberton</td>
							<td>They might, perhaps, madam, with people of your good sense; but with the generality ’twould never do. The vulgar would have no respect for truth and knowledge, if they were exposed to naked view.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Truth is too simple, of all art bereaved:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Since the world will⁠—why let it be deceived.</span>
									</p>
								</blockquote>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
