<h2>THE CONSCIOUS LOVERS.</i></a></h2>

<p>"Illud genus narrationis, quod in personis positum est, debet
habere sermones festivitatem, animorum dissimilitudinem, gravitatem,
lenitatem, spem, metum, suspicionem, desiderium, dissimulationem,
misericordiam, rerum varietates, fortunæ commutationem,
insperatum incommodum, subitam letitiam, jucundum exitum
rerum."<a name="FNanchor_103_103" id="FNanchor_103_103"></a><a href="#Footnote_103_103" class="fnanchor">[103]</a>—<span class="smcap">Cicero</span>, Rhetor. ad Herenn. Lib. i.<br />
<br /></p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_266" id="Page_266">[Pg 266]</a></span></p>


<p><i>The Conscious Lovers</i>, a Comedy which
had been long in preparation, was acted
at Drury Lane Theatre on November
7, 1722, "with new scenes and all
the characters new drest," and with
Booth (who had acted the part of
Pamphilus—the prototype of young
Bevil—at Westminster with great success), Wilks
(Myrtle), Cibber (Tom), Mills (Sir John Bevil), Mrs.
Oldfield (Indiana), and Mrs. Younger (Phillis) in the
principal parts. The play ran for eighteen nights, and
was a great success. It was often revived between 1722
and 1760, and was acted at Covent Garden in 1810, and
at Bath in 1818. Phillis was Peg Woffington's second
speaking character in Dublin, and she took that part on
March 9, 1741, during her first season in London. The
play was published by Tonson on December 1, 1722,
with the date 1723 on the title-page. The general idea
of the piece is taken from Terence's <i>Andria</i>, but the original
is widely departed from after the opening scenes.
Colley Cibber lent material aid in preparing the play for
representation. It was attacked by John Dennis in two
pamphlets, and defended by Benjamin Victor and others.</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_267" id="Page_267">[Pg 267]</a></span></p>




<h4><i>To</i></h4>

<h3>THE KING.</h3>


<p><span class="smcap">May it please your Majesty</span>,</p>

<p>After having aspired to the highest and
most laudable ambition, that of following
the cause of liberty, I should not
have humbly petitioned your Majesty
for a direction of the theatre, had I not
believed success in that province an
happiness much to be wished by an
honest man, and highly conducing to the prosperity of
the commonwealth. It is in this view I lay before your
Majesty a Comedy which the audience, in justice to
themselves, has supported and encouraged, and is the
prelude of what, by your Majesty's influence and favour,
may be attempted in future representations.</p>

<p>The imperial mantle, the royal vestment, and the shining
diadem are what strike ordinary minds; but your
Majesty's native goodness, your passion for justice, and
her constant assessor mercy, is what continually surrounds
you in the view of intelligent spirits, and gives hope to
the suppliant, who sees he has more than succeeded in
giving your Majesty an opportunity of doing good. Our
King is above the greatness of royalty, and every act of
his will which makes another man happy has ten times<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_268" id="Page_268">[Pg 268]</a></span>
more charms in it than one that makes himself appear
raised above the condition of others. But even this carries
unhappiness with it; for calm dominion, equal grandeur,
and familiar greatness do not easily affect the
imagination of the vulgar, who cannot see power but in
terror; and as fear moves mean spirits, and love prompts
great ones to obey, the insinuations of malcontents are
directed accordingly; and the unhappy people are ensnared,
from want of reflection, into disrespectful ideas of
their gracious and amiable sovereign, and then only
begin to apprehend the greatness of their master when
they have incurred his displeasure.</p>

<p>As your Majesty was invited to the throne of a willing
people, for their own sakes, and has ever enjoyed it with
contempt of the ostentation of it, we beseech you to protect
us who revere your title as we love your person. 'Tis
to be a savage to be a rebel, and they who have fallen
from you have not so much forfeited their allegiance as
lost their humanity. And, therefore, if it were only to
preserve myself from the imputation of being amongst
the insensible and abandoned, I would beg permission
in the most public manner possible to profess myself,
with the utmost sincerity and zeal,</p>

<p>Sire,</p>

<p>Your Majesty's</p>

<p>Most devoted subject</p>

<p>And servant,</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Richard Steele</span>.</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_269" id="Page_269">[Pg 269]</a></span></p>




<h3>THE PREFACE.<a name="FNanchor_104_104" id="FNanchor_104_104"></a><a href="#Footnote_104_104" class="fnanchor">[104]</a></h3>


<p>This Comedy has been received with
universal acceptance, for it was in
every part excellently performed;
and there needs no other applause
of the actors but that they excelled
according to the dignity and difficulty
of the character they represented.
But this great favour done to the work in acting
renders the expectation still the greater from the author,
to keep up the spirit in the representation of the closet,
or any other circumstance of the reader, whether alone
or in company; to which I can only say that it must be
remembered, a play is to be seen, and is made to be
represented with the advantage of action, nor can appear
but with half the spirit without it. For the greatest effect
of a play in reading is to excite the reader to go to see
it; and when he does so, it is then a play has the effect
of example and precept.</p>

<p>The chief design of this was to be an innocent performance,
and the audience have abundantly shown how
ready they are to support what is visibly intended that
way. Nor do I make any difficulty to acknowledge that
the whole was writ for the sake of the scene of the
Fourth Act, wherein Mr. Bevil evades the quarrel with<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_270" id="Page_270">[Pg 270]</a></span>
his friend, and<a name="FNanchor_105_105" id="FNanchor_105_105"></a><a href="#Footnote_105_105" class="fnanchor">[105]</a> hope it may have some effect upon the
Goths and Vandals that frequent the theatres, or a more
polite audience may supply their absence.</p>

<p>But this incident, and the case of the father and daughter,
are esteemed by some people no subjects of comedy; but
I cannot be of their mind, for anything that has its foundation
in happiness and success must be allowed to be the
object of comedy; and sure it must be an improvement of
it to introduce a joy too exquisite for laughter, that can
have no spring but in delight, which is the case of this
young lady. I must, therefore, contend that the tears which
were shed on that occasion flowed from reason and good
sense, and that men ought not to be laughed at for
weeping till we are come to a more clear notion of what
is to be imputed to the hardness of the head and the
softness of the heart; and I think it was very politely
said of Mr. Wilks, to one who told him there was a
General<a name="FNanchor_106_106" id="FNanchor_106_106"></a><a href="#Footnote_106_106" class="fnanchor">[106]</a> weeping for Indiana, "I'll warrant he'll fight ne'er
the worse for that." To be apt to give way to the impressions
of humanity, is the excellence of a right disposition
and the natural working of a well-turned spirit. But as
I have suffered by critics who have got no farther than to
inquire whether they ought to be pleased or not,<a name="FNanchor_107_107" id="FNanchor_107_107"></a><a href="#Footnote_107_107" class="fnanchor">[107]</a> I
would willingly find them properer matter for their employment,
and revive here a song which was omitted for
want of a performer, and designed for the entertainment
of Indiana. Signor Carbonelli,<a name="FNanchor_108_108" id="FNanchor_108_108"></a><a href="#Footnote_108_108" class="fnanchor">[108]</a> instead of it, played<a name="FNanchor_109_109" id="FNanchor_109_109"></a><a href="#Footnote_109_109" class="fnanchor">[109]</a>
on the fiddle, and it is for want of a singer that such
advantageous things are said of an instrument which
were designed for a voice. The song is the distress of a<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_271" id="Page_271">[Pg 271]</a></span>
love-sick maid, and may be a fit entertainment for some
small critics<a name="FNanchor_110_110" id="FNanchor_110_110"></a><a href="#Footnote_110_110" class="fnanchor">[110]</a> to examine whether the passion is just or
the distress male or female.</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">I.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">From place to place forlorn I go,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 3em;">With downcast eyes a silent shade,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Forbidden to declare my woe;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 3em;">To speak till spoken to, afraid.</span><br />
<br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">II.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">My inward pangs, my secret grief,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 3em;">My soft consenting looks betray.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">He loves, but gives me no relief;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 3em;">Why speaks not he who may?</span><br />
</p>

<p>It remains to say a word concerning Terence, and I
am extremely surprised to find what Mr. Cibber told
me prove a truth:<a name="FNanchor_111_111" id="FNanchor_111_111"></a><a href="#Footnote_111_111" class="fnanchor">[111]</a> that what I valued myself so much
upon—the translation of him<a name="FNanchor_112_112" id="FNanchor_112_112"></a><a href="#Footnote_112_112" class="fnanchor">[112]</a>—should be imputed to
me as a reproach. Mr. Cibber's zeal for the work, his
care and application in instructing the actors and altering
the disposition of the scenes, when I was, through
sickness, unable to cultivate such things myself, has been
a very obliging favour and friendship to me. For this
reason I was very hardly persuaded<a name="FNanchor_113_113" id="FNanchor_113_113"></a><a href="#Footnote_113_113" class="fnanchor">[113]</a> to throw away
Terence's celebrated funeral, and take only the bare
authority of the young man's character; and how I have
worked it into an Englishman, and made use of the same
circumstances of discovering a daughter when we least
hoped for one, is humbly submitted to the learned reader.</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_272" id="Page_272">[Pg 272]</a></span></p>




<h3>PROLOGUE.</h3>

<p><i>By</i> <span class="smcap">Mr. Welsted</span>.<a name="FNanchor_114_114" id="FNanchor_114_114"></a><a href="#Footnote_114_114" class="fnanchor">[114]</a></p>

<p><i>Spoken by</i> <span class="smcap">Mr. Wilks</span>.</p>


<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">To win your hearts and to secure your praise,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The comic writers strive by various ways;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">By subtle stratagems they act their game,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And leave untried no avenue to fame.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">One writes the spouse a beating from his wife,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And says each stroke was copied from the life.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Some fix all wit and humour in grimace,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And make a livelihood of Pinkey's<a name="FNanchor_115_115" id="FNanchor_115_115"></a><a href="#Footnote_115_115" class="fnanchor">[115]</a> face.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Here, one gay show and costly habits tries,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Confiding to the judgment of your eyes;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Another smuts his scene (a cunning shaver),</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Sure of the rakes' and of the wenches' favour.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Oft have these arts prevailed, and one may guess,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">If practised o'er again, would find success.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">But the bold sage—the poet of to-night—</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">By new and desperate rules resolved to write;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Fain would he give more just applauses rise,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And please by wit that scorns the aids of vice;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The praise he seeks from worthier motives springs,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Such praise as praise to those that give it brings.</span><br />
<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_273" id="Page_273">[Pg 273]</a></span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Your aid most humbly sought, then, Britons lend,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And liberal mirth like liberal men defend.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">No more let ribaldry, with licence writ,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Usurp the name of eloquence or wit;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">No more let lawless farce uncensured go,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The lewd dull gleanings of a Smithfield show.<a name="FNanchor_116_116" id="FNanchor_116_116"></a><a href="#Footnote_116_116" class="fnanchor">[116]</a></span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">'Tis yours with breeding to refine the age,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">To chasten wit, and moralise the stage.</span><br />
<br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Ye modest, wise and good, ye fair, ye brave,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">To-night the champion of your virtues save;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Redeem from long contempt the comic name,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And judge politely for your country's fame.</span><br />
</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_274" id="Page_274">[Pg 274]</a></span></p>




<h3><i>DRAMATIS PERSONÆ.</i></h3>

<p>Sir <span class="smcap">John Bevil</span>.</p>

<p>Mr. <span class="smcap">Sealand</span>.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.</span>, in love with <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Myrtle</span>, in love with <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span>.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Cimberton</span>, a Coxcomb.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Humphry</span>, an old Servant to Sir <span class="smcap">John</span>.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Tom</span>, Servant to <span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.</span></p>

<p><span class="smcap">Daniel</span>, a Country Boy, Servant to <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.<br />
<br /></p>


<p><span class="smcap">Mrs. Sealand</span>, second Wife to <span class="smcap">Sealand</span>.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Isabella</span>, Sister to <span class="smcap">Sealand</span>.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Indiana, Sealand's</span> Daughter, by his first Wife.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Lucinda, Sealand's</span> Daughter, by his second Wife.</p>

<p><span class="smcap">Phillis</span>, Maid to <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span>.<br />
<br /></p>


<p>SCENE.—<span class="smcap">London</span>.</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_275" id="Page_275">[Pg 275]</a></span></p>




<h3><i>THE CONSCIOUS LOVERS.</i></h3>


<h3>ACT THE FIRST.</h3>


<h4>SCENE I.—<span class="smcap">Sir John Bevil's</span> <i>House.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John Bevil</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Humphry</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Have you ordered that I
should not be interrupted while I am
dressing?</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Yes, sir; I believed you
had something of moment to say to me.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Let me see, Humphry;
I think it is now full forty years since I first took thee
to be about myself.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I thank you, sir, it has been an easy forty years;
and I have passed 'em without much sickness, care, or
labour.</p>

<p><i>Sir J Bev.</i> Thou hast a brave constitution; you are a
year or two older than I am, sirrah.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> You have ever been of that mind, sir.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> You knave, you know it; I took thee for
thy gravity and sobriety, in my wild years.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Ah, sir! our manners were formed from our<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_276" id="Page_276">[Pg 276]</a></span>
different fortunes, not our different age. Wealth gave a
loose to your youth, and poverty put a restraint upon
mine.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Well, Humphry, you know I have been
a kind master to you; I have used you, for the ingenuous
nature I observed in you from the beginning, more like
an humble friend than a servant.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I humbly beg you'll be so tender of me as
to explain your commands, sir, without any farther
preparation.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> I'll tell thee, then: In the first place,
this wedding of my son's in all probability—shut the door—will
never be at all.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> How, sir! not be at all? for what reason is
it carried on in appearance?</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Honest Humphry, have patience; and
I'll tell thee all in order. I have, myself, in some part
of my life, lived (indeed) with freedom, but, I hope,
without reproach. Now, I thought liberty would be as
little injurious to my son; therefore, as soon as he grew
towards man, I indulged him in living after his own
manner. I knew not how, otherwise, to judge of his
inclination; for what can be concluded from a behaviour
under restraint and fear?<a name="FNanchor_117_117" id="FNanchor_117_117"></a><a href="#Footnote_117_117" class="fnanchor">[117]</a> But what charms me above
all expression is, that my son has never, in the least action,
the most distant hint or word, valued himself upon that
great estate of his mother's, which, according to our
marriage settlement, he has had ever since he came
to age.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> No, sir; on the contrary, he seems afraid of
appearing to enjoy it, before you or any belonging to
you. He is as dependent and resigned to your will as
if he had not a farthing but what must come from your
immediate bounty. You have ever acted like a good<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_277" id="Page_277">[Pg 277]</a></span>
and generous father, and he like an obedient and grateful
son.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Nay, his carriage is so easy to all with
whom he converses, that he is never assuming, never
prefers himself to others, nor ever is guilty of that rough
sincerity which a man is not called to, and certainly disobliges
most of his acquaintance; to be short, Humphry,
his reputation was so fair in the world, that old Sealand,
the great India merchant, has offered his only daughter,
and sole heiress to that vast estate of his, as a wife for
him. You may be sure I made no difficulties, the match
was agreed on, and this very day named for the wedding.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> What hinders the proceeding?</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Don't interrupt me. You know I was last
Thursday at the masquerade; my son, you may remember,
soon found us out. He knew his grandfather's habit,
which I then wore; and though it was the mode, in the
last age, yet the masquers, you know, followed us as if
we had been the most monstrous figures in that whole
assembly.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I remember, indeed, a young man of quality
in the habit of a clown, that was particularly troublesome.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Right; he was too much what he seemed
to be. You remember how impertinently he followed and
teased us, and would know who we were.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I know he has a mind to come into that
particular. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Ay, he followed us till the gentleman who
led the lady in the Indian mantle presented that gay creature
to the rustic, and bid him (like Cymon in the fable)
grow polite by falling in love, and let that worthy old
gentleman alone, meaning me. The clown was not
reformed, but rudely persisted, and offered to force off
my mask; with that, the gentleman, throwing off his own,
appeared to be my son, and in his concern for me, tore
off that of the nobleman; at this they seized each other;<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_278" id="Page_278">[Pg 278]</a></span>
the company called the guards, and in the surprise the
lady swooned away; upon which my son quitted his
adversary, and had now no care but of the lady. When
raising her in his arms, "Art thou gone," cried he, "for
ever?—forbid it, Heaven!" She revived at his known
voice, and with the most familiar, though modest, gesture,
hangs in safety over his shoulder weeping, but wept as in
the arms of one before whom she could give herself a
loose, were she not under observation; while she hides
her face in his neck, he carefully conveys her from the
company.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I have observed this accident has dwelt upon
you very strongly.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Her uncommon air, her noble modesty, the
dignity of her person, and the occasion itself, drew the
whole assembly together; and I soon heard it buzzed
about she was the adopted daughter of a famous sea-officer
who had served in France. Now this unexpected
and public discovery of my son's so deep concern for
her——</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Was what, I suppose, alarmed Mr. Sealand,
in behalf of his daughter, to break off the match?</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> You are right. He came to me yesterday
and said he thought himself disengaged from the bargain;
being credibly informed my son was already married, or
worse, to the lady at the masquerade. I palliated
matters, and insisted on our agreement; but we parted
with little less than a direct breach between us.<a name="FNanchor_118_118" id="FNanchor_118_118"></a><a href="#Footnote_118_118" class="fnanchor">[118]</a></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Well, sir; and what notice have you taken of
all this to my young master?</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> That's what I wanted to debate with you.
I have said nothing to him yet—but look you, Humphry,
if there is so much in this amour of his, that he
denies upon my summons to marry, I have cause enough<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_279" id="Page_279">[Pg 279]</a></span>
to be offended; and then by my insisting upon his marrying
to-day, I shall know how far he is engaged to this
lady in masquerade, and from thence only shall be able
to take my measures. In the meantime I would have
you find out how far that rogue, his man, is let into his
secret. He, I know, will play tricks as much to cross me,
as to serve his master.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Why do you think so of him, sir? I believe
he is no worse than I was for you, at your son's age.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> I see it in the rascal's looks. But I have
dwelt on these things too long; I'll go to my son immediately,
and while I'm gone, your part is to convince
his rogue, Tom, that I am in earnest.—I'll leave him to
you. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John Bevil</span>.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Well, though this father and son live as well
together as possible, yet their fear of giving each other
pain is attended with constant mutual uneasiness. I'm
sure I have enough to do to be honest, and yet keep well
with them both. But they know I love 'em, and that
makes the task less painful however. Oh, here's the
prince of poor coxcombs, the representative of all the
better fed than taught. Ho! ho! Tom, whither so gay
and so airy this morning?</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>, <i>singing.</i></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir, we servants of single gentlemen are another
kind of people than you domestic ordinary drudges that
do business; we are raised above you. The pleasures
of board-wages, tavern dinners, and many a clear gain;
vails, alas! you never heard or dreamt of.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Thou hast follies and vices enough for a man
of ten thousand a year, though 'tis but as t'other day that
I sent for you to town to put you into Mr. Sealand's
family, that you might learn a little before I put you to
my young master, who is too gentle for training such a
rude thing as you were into proper obedience. You<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_280" id="Page_280">[Pg 280]</a></span>
then pulled off your hat to everyone you met in the street,
like a bashful great awkward cub as you were. But your
great oaken cudgel, when you were a booby, became you
much better than that dangling stick at your button, now
you are a fop. That's fit for nothing, except it hangs
there to be ready for your master's hand when you are
impertinent.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Uncle Humphry, you know my master scorns
to strike his servants. You talk as if the world was now
just as it was when my old master and you were in your
youth; when you went to dinner because it was so much
o'clock, when the great blow was given in the hall at the
pantry door, and all the family came out of their holes
in such strange dresses and formal faces as you see in
the pictures in our long gallery in the country.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Why, you wild rogue!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> You could not fall to your dinner till a formal
fellow in a black gown said something over the meat, as
if the cook had not made it ready enough.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sirrah, who do you prate after? Despising
men of sacred characters! I hope you never heard my
good young master talk so like a profligate.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir, I say you put upon me, when I first came
to town, about being orderly, and the doctrine of wearing
shams to make linen last clean a fortnight, keeping my
clothes fresh, and wearing a frock within doors.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sirrah, I gave you those lessons because I
supposed at that time your master and you might have
dined at home every day, and cost you nothing; then you
might have made a good family servant. But the gang
you have frequented since at chocolate houses and
taverns, in a continual round of noise and extravagance—</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I don't know what you heavy inmates call noise
and extravagance; but we gentlemen, who are well fed,
and cut a figure, sir, think it a fine life, and that we must
be very pretty fellows who are kept only to be looked at.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_281" id="Page_281">[Pg 281]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Very well, sir, I hope the fashion of being lewd
and extravagant, despising of decency and order, is almost
at an end, since it has arrived at persons of your quality.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Master Humphry, ha! ha! you were an unhappy
lad to be sent up to town in such queer days as you
were. Why, now, sir, the lackeys are the men of pleasure
of the age, the top gamesters; and many a laced coat
about town have had their education in our party-coloured
regiment. We are false lovers; have a taste of
music, poetry, billet-doux, dress, politics; ruin damsels;
and when we are tired of this lewd town, and have a
mind to take up, whip into our masters' wigs and linen,
and marry fortunes.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Hey-day!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Nay, sir, our order is carried up to the highest
dignities and distinctions; step but into the Painted
Chamber,<a name="FNanchor_119_119" id="FNanchor_119_119"></a><a href="#Footnote_119_119" class="fnanchor">[119]</a> and by our titles you'd take us all for men of
quality. Then, again, come down to the Court of Requests,
and you see us all laying our broken heads together for
the good of the nation; and though we never carry a
question nemine contradicente, yet this I can say, with a
safe conscience (and I wish every gentleman of our cloth
could lay his hand upon his heart and say the same), that
I never took so much as a single mug of beer for my vote
in all my life.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sirrah, there is no enduring your extravagance;
I'll hear you prate no longer. I wanted to see
you to enquire how things go with your master, as far as
you understand them; I suppose he knows he is to be
married to-day.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Ay, sir, he knows it, and is dressed as gay as<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_282" id="Page_282">[Pg 282]</a></span>
the sun; but, between you and I, my dear, he has a
very heavy heart under all that gaiety. As soon as he
was dressed I retired, but overheard him sigh in the most
heavy manner. He walked thoughtfully to and fro in
the room, then went into his closet; when he came out
he gave me this for his mistress, whose maid, you
know——</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Is passionately fond of your fine person.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> The poor fool is so tender, and loves to hear me
talk of the world, and the plays, operas, and ridottos<a name="FNanchor_120_120" id="FNanchor_120_120"></a><a href="#Footnote_120_120" class="fnanchor">[120]</a> for
the winter, the parks and Belsize<a name="FNanchor_121_121" id="FNanchor_121_121"></a><a href="#Footnote_121_121" class="fnanchor">[121]</a> for our summer diversions;
and "Lard!" says she, "you are so wild, but you
have a world of humour."</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Coxcomb! Well, but why don't you run
with your master's letter to Mrs. Lucinda, as he ordered
you?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Because Mrs. Lucinda is not so easily come at
as you think for.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Not easily come at? Why, sirrah, are not her
father and my old master agreed that she and Mr. Bevil
are to be one flesh before to-morrow morning?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> It's no matter for that; her mother, it seems,
Mrs. Sealand, has not agreed to it; and you must
know, Mr. Humphry, that in that family the grey mare
is the better horse.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> What dost thou mean?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> In one word, Mrs. Sealand pretends to have a<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_283" id="Page_283">[Pg 283]</a></span>
will of her own, and has provided a relation of hers, a
stiff, starched philosopher, and a wise fool, for her daughter;
for which reason, for these ten days past, she has
suffered no message nor letter from my master to come
near her.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> And where had you this intelligence?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> From a foolish fond soul that can keep nothing
from me; one that will deliver this letter too, if she
is rightly managed.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> What! her pretty handmaid, Mrs. Phillis?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Even she, sir; this is the very hour, you know,
she usually comes hither, under a pretence of a visit to
your housekeeper, forsooth, but in reality to have a glance
at——</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Your sweet face, I warrant you.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Nothing else in nature; you must know, I love
to fret and play with the little wanton.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Play with the little wanton! What will this
world come to!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I met her this morning in a new manteau and
petticoat, not a bit the worse for her lady's wearing;
and she has always new thoughts and new airs with new
clothes—then she never fails to steal some glance or
gesture from every visitant at their house; and is, indeed,
the whole town of coquets at second-hand. But here she
comes; in one motion she speaks and describes herself
better than all the words in the world can.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Then I hope, dear sir, when your own affair
is over, you will be so good as to mind your master's
with her.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Dear Humphry, you know my master is my
friend, and those are people I never forget.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sauciness itself! but I'll leave you to do
your best for him. [<i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_284" id="Page_284">[Pg 284]</a></span></p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>.<a name="FNanchor_122_122" id="FNanchor_122_122"></a><a href="#Footnote_122_122" class="fnanchor">[122]</a></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Oh, Mr. Thomas, is Mrs. Sugar-key at home?
Lard, one is almost ashamed to pass along the streets!
The town is quite empty, and nobody of fashion left in
it; and the ordinary people do so stare to see anything,
dressed like a woman of condition, as it were on the
same floor with them, pass by. Alas! alas! it is a sad
thing to walk. O fortune! fortune!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> What! a sad thing to walk? Why, Madam
Phillis, do you wish yourself lame?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> No, Mr. Tom, but I wish I were generally
carried in a coach or chair, and of a fortune neither to
stand nor go, but to totter, or slide, to be short-sighted,
or stare, to fleer in the face, to look distant, to observe,
to overlook, yet all become me; and, if I was rich, I
could twire<a name="FNanchor_123_123" id="FNanchor_123_123"></a><a href="#Footnote_123_123" class="fnanchor">[123]</a> and loll as well as the best of them. Oh,
Tom! Tom! is it not a pity that you should be so great
a coxcomb, and I so great a coquet, and yet be such
poor devils as we are?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Mrs. Phillis, I am your humble servant for
that——</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Yes, Mr. Thomas, I know how much you are
my humble servant, and know what you said to Mrs.
Judy, upon seeing her in one of her lady's cast manteaus:<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_285" id="Page_285">[Pg 285]</a></span>
That any one would have thought her the lady, and that
she had ordered the other to wear it till it sat easy; for
now only it was becoming. To my lady it was only a
covering, to Mrs. Judy it was a habit. This you said,
after somebody or other. Oh, Tom! Tom! thou art as
false and as base as the best gentleman of them all; but,
you wretch, talk to me no more on the old odious subject—don't,
I say.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I know not how to resist your commands,
madam. [<i>In a submissive tone, retiring.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Commands about parting are grown mighty easy
to you of late.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Oh, I have her; I have nettled and put her
into the right temper to be wrought upon and set a-prating.
[<i>Aside.</i>]—Why, truly, to be plain with you, Mrs.
Phillis, I can take little comfort of late in frequenting
your house.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Pray, Mr. Thomas, what is it all of a sudden
offends your nicety at our house?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I don't care to speak particulars, but I dislike
the whole.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I thank you, sir, I am a part of that whole.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Mistake me not, good Phillis.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Good Phillis! Saucy enough. But however——</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I say, it is that thou art a part, which gives me
pain for the disposition of the whole. You must know,
madam, to be serious, I am a man, at the bottom, of
prodigious nice honour. You are too much exposed to
company at your house. To be plain, I don't like so
many, that would be your mistress's lovers, whispering to
you.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Don't think to put that upon me. You say this,
because I wrung you to the heart when I touched your
guilty conscience about Judy.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Ah, Phillis! Phillis! if you but knew my heart!</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I know too much on't.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_286" id="Page_286">[Pg 286]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Nay, then, poor Crispo's<a name="FNanchor_124_124" id="FNanchor_124_124"></a><a href="#Footnote_124_124" class="fnanchor">[124]</a> fate and mine are
one. Therefore give me leave to say, or sing at least, as
he does upon the same occasion—</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">"Se vedette," &amp;c. [<i>Sings.</i>]</span><br />
</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> What, do you think I'm to be fobbed off with a
song? I don't question but you have sung the same to
Mrs. Judy too.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Don't disparage your charms, good Phillis, with
jealousy of so worthless an object; besides, she is a poor
hussy, and if you doubt the sincerity of my love, you
will allow me true to my interest. You are a fortune,
Phillis.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> What would the fop be at now? In good time,
indeed, you shall be setting up for a fortune!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Dear Mrs. Phillis, you have such a spirit that
we shall never be dull in marriage when we come together.
But I tell you, you are a fortune, and you have
an estate in my hands. [<i>He pulls out a purse, she eyes it.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> What pretence have I to what is in your hands,
Mr. Tom?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> As thus: there are hours, you know, when a
lady is neither pleased or displeased; neither sick or well;
when she lolls or loiters; when she's without desires—from
having more of everything than she knows what to
do with.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Well, what then?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> When she has not life enough to keep her
bright eyes quite open, to look at her own dear image in
the glass.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Explain thyself, and don't be so fond of thy own
prating.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> There are also prosperous and good-natured
moments: as when a knot or a patch is happily fixed;
when the complexion particularly flourishes.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_287" id="Page_287">[Pg 287]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Well, what then? I have not patience!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Why, then—or on the like occasions—we servants
who have skill to know how to time business, see
when such a pretty folded thing as this [<i>Shows a letter.</i>]
may be presented, laid, or dropped, as best suits the
present humour. And, madam, because it is a long
wearisome journey to run through all the several stages
of a lady's temper, my master, who is the most reasonable
man in the world, presents you this to bear your
charges on the road. [<i>Gives her the purse.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Now you think me a corrupt hussy.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> O fie, I only think you'll take the letter.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Nay, I know you do, but I know my own innocence;
I take it for my mistress's sake.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I know it, my pretty one, I know it.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Yes, I say I do it, because I would not have my
mistress deluded by one who gives no proof of his
passion; but I'll talk more of tips as you see me on my
way home. No, Tom, I assure thee, I take this trash of
thy master's, not for the value of the thing, but as it convinces
me he has a true respect for my mistress. I
remember a verse to the purpose—</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">They may be false who languish and complain,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">But they who part with money never feign.</span><br />
[<i>Exeunt.</i><br />
</p>


<h4>SCENE II. <span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.'s</span> <i>Lodgings.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.</span>, <i>reading.</i></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> These moral writers practise virtue after
death. This charming vision of Mirza!<a name="FNanchor_125_125" id="FNanchor_125_125"></a><a href="#Footnote_125_125" class="fnanchor">[125]</a> Such an<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_288" id="Page_288">[Pg 288]</a></span>
author consulted in a morning sets the spirit for the
vicissitudes of the day better than the glass does a man's
person. But what a day have I to go through! to put
on an easy look with an aching heart! If this lady my
father urges me to marry should not refuse me, my
dilemma is insupportable. But why should I fear it?
Is not she in equal distress with me? Has not the
letter I have sent her this morning confessed my inclination
to another? Nay, have I not moral assurances of
her engagements, too, to my friend Myrtle? It's impossible
but she must give in to it; for, sure, to be
denied is a favour any man may pretend to. It must be
so—Well, then, with the assurance of being rejected, I
think I may confidently say to my father, I am ready to
marry her. Then let me resolve upon, what I am not
very good at, though it is an honest dissimulation.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir John Bevil, sir, is in the next room.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Dunce! Why did not you bring him in?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I told him, sir, you were in your closet.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> I thought you had known, sir, it was my
duty to see my father anywhere.
[<i>Going himself to the door.</i></p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> The devil's in my master! he has always more
wit than I have. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<blockquote>

<p><span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.</span>, <i>introducing</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Sir, you are the most gallant, the most complaisant
of all parents. Sure, 'tis not a compliment to
say these lodgings are yours. Why would you not walk
in, sir?</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> I was loth to interrupt you unseasonably
on your wedding-day.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> One to whom I am beholden for my birth-day
might have used less ceremony.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_289" id="Page_289">[Pg 289]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Well, son, I have intelligence you have
writ to your mistress this morning. It would please my
curiosity to know the contents of a wedding-day letter;
for courtship must then be over.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> I assure you, sir, there was no insolence in
it upon the prospect of such a vast fortune's being added
to our family; but much acknowledgment of the lady's
greater desert.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> But, dear Jack, are you in earnest in all
this? And will you really marry her?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Did I ever disobey any command of yours,
sir? nay, any inclination that I saw you bent upon?</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Why, I can't say you have, son; but methinks
in this whole business, you have not been so warm
as I could have wished you. You have visited her, it's
true, but you have not been particular. Everyone
knows you can say and do as handsome things as any
man; but you have done nothing but lived in the
general—been complaisant only.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> As I am ever prepared to marry if you bid
me, so I am ready to let it alone if you will have me.</p>

<blockquote>

<p>[<span class="smcap">Humphry</span> <i>enters, unobserved.</i></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Look you there now! why, what am I to
think of this so absolute and so indifferent a resignation?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Think? that I am still your son, sir. Sir,
you have been married, and I have not. And you have,
sir, found the inconvenience there is when a man weds
with too much love in his head. I have been told, sir,
that at the time you married, you made a mighty bustle
on the occasion. There was challenging and fighting,
scaling walls, locking up the lady, and the gallant under
an arrest for fear of killing all his rivals. Now, sir, I
suppose you having found the ill consequences of these
strong passions and prejudices, in preference of one
woman to another, in case of a man's becoming a
widower——</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_290" id="Page_290">[Pg 290]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> How is this?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> I say, sir, experience has made you wiser in
your care of me; for, sir, since you lost my dear mother,
your time has been so heavy, so lonely, and so tasteless,
that you are so good as to guard me against the like unhappiness,
by marrying me prudentially by way of bargain
and sale. For, as you well judge, a woman that is
espoused for a fortune, is yet a better bargain if she
dies; for then a man still enjoys what he did marry, the
money, and is disencumbered of what he did not marry,
the woman.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> But pray, sir, do you think Lucinda, then,
a woman of such little merit?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Pardon me, sir, I don't carry it so far
neither; I am rather afraid I shall like her too well;
she has, for one of her fortune, a great many needless
and superfluous good qualities.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> I am afraid, son, there's something I
don't see yet, something that's smothered under all this
raillery.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Not in the least, sir. If the lady is dressed
and ready, you see I am. I suppose the lawyers are
ready too.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> This may grow warm if I don't interpose.
[<i>Aside.</i>]—Sir, Mr. Sealand is at the coffee-house, and has
sent to speak with you.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Oh! that's well! Then I warrant the
lawyers are ready. Son, you'll be in the way, you say.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> If you please, sir, I'll take a chair, and go
to Mr. Sealand's, where the young lady and I will wait
your leisure.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> By no means. The old fellow will be so
vain if he sees——</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Ay; but the young lady, sir, will think me
so indifferent.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_291" id="Page_291">[Pg 291]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Ay, there you are right; press your readiness
to go to the bride—he won't let you. [<i>Aside to</i> <span class="smcap">Bev. Jun.</span></p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Are you sure of that? [<i>Aside to</i> <span class="smcap">Humph.</span></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> How he likes being prevented. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> No, no. You are an hour or two too
early. [<i>Looking on his watch.</i></p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> You'll allow me, sir, to think it too late to
visit a beautiful, virtuous young woman, in the pride and
bloom of life, ready to give herself to my arms; and to
place her happiness or misery, for the future, in being
agreeable or displeasing to me, is a——Call a chair.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> No, no, no, dear Jack; this Sealand is a
moody old fellow. There's no dealing with some people
but by managing with indifference. We must leave to
him the conduct of this day. It is the last of his commanding
his daughter.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Sir, he can't take it ill, that I am impatient
to be hers.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Pray let me govern in this matter; you
can't tell how humorsome old fellows are. There's no
offering reason to some of 'em, especially when they are
rich.—If my son should see him before I've brought old
Sealand into better temper, the match would be impracticable.
[<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Pray, sir, let me beg you to let Mr. Bevil go.—See
whether he will or not. [<i>Aside to</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John</span>]—[<i>Then to</i>
<span class="smcap">Bev</span>.] Pray, sir, command yourself; since you see my
master is positive, it is better you should not go.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> My father commands me, as to the object of
my affections; but I hope he will not, as to the warmth
and height of them.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> So! I must even leave things as I found
them; and in the meantime, at least, keep old Sealand
out of his sight—Well, son, I'll go myself and take
orders in your affair. You'll be in the way, I suppose,
if I send to you. I'll leave your old friend with you—Humphry,<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_292" id="Page_292">[Pg 292]</a></span>
don't let him stir, d'ye hear?—Your servant,
your servant. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John</span>.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I have a sad time on't, sir, between you and
my master. I see you are unwilling, and I know his
violent inclinations for the match.—I must betray
neither, and yet deceive you both, for your common
good. Heaven grant a good end of this matter.—But
there is a lady, sir, that gives your father much trouble
and sorrow.—You'll pardon me.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Humphry, I know thou art a friend to
both, and in that confidence I dare tell thee, that lady
is a woman of honour and virtue. You may assure
yourself I never will marry without my father's consent.
But give me leave to say, too, this declaration does not
come up to a promise that I will take whomsoever he
pleases.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Come, sir, I wholly understand you. You
would engage my services to free you from this woman
whom my master intends you, to make way, in time, for
the woman you have really a mind to.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Honest Humphry, you have always been a
useful friend to my father and myself; I beg you continue
your good offices, and don't let us come to the
necessity of a dispute; for, if we should dispute, I must
either part with more than life, or lose the best of fathers.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> My dear master, were I but worthy to know
this secret, that so near concerns you, my life, my all
should be engaged to serve you. This, sir, I dare promise,
that I am sure I will and can be secret: your trust,
at worst, but leaves you where you were; and if I cannot
serve you, I will at once be plain and tell you so.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> That's all I ask. Thou hast made it now
my interest to trust thee. Be patient, then, and hear
the story of my heart.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I am all attention, sir.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> You may remember, Humphry, that in my<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_293" id="Page_293">[Pg 293]</a></span>
last travels my father grew uneasy at my making so long
a stay at Toulon.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I remember it; he was apprehensive some
woman had laid hold of you.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> His fears were just; for there I first saw this
lady. She is of English birth: her father's name was
Danvers—a younger brother of an ancient family, and
originally an eminent merchant of Bristol, who, upon
repeated misfortunes, was reduced to go privately to the
Indies. In this retreat, Providence again grew favourable
to his industry, and, in six years' time, restored him to
his former fortunes. On this he sent directions over that
his wife and little family should follow him to the Indies.
His wife, impatient to obey such welcome orders, would
not wait the leisure of a convoy, but took the first occasion
of a single ship, and, with her husband's sister only,
and this daughter, then scarce seven years old, undertook
the fatal voyage—for here, poor creature, she lost
her liberty and life. She and her family, with all they
had, were, unfortunately, taken by a privateer from
Toulon. Being thus made a prisoner, though as such
not ill-treated, yet the fright, the shock, and cruel disappointment,
seized with such violence upon her unhealthy
frame, she sickened, pined, and died at sea.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Poor soul! O the helpless infant!</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Her sister yet survived, and had the care of her.
The captain, too, proved to have humanity, and became
a father to her; for having himself married an English
woman, and being childless, he brought home into
Toulon this her little country-woman, presenting her,
with all her dead mother's movables of value, to his
wife, to be educated as his own adopted daughter.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Fortune here seemed again to smile on her.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Only to make her frowns more terrible; for, in
his height of fortune, this captain, too, her benefactor,
unfortunately was killed at sea; and dying intestate, his<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_294" id="Page_294">[Pg 294]</a></span>
estate fell wholly to an advocate, his brother, who,
coming soon to take possession, there found (among his
other riches) this blooming virgin at his mercy.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> He durst not, sure, abuse his power?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> No wonder if his pampered blood was fired at
the sight of her—in short, he loved; but when all arts
and gentle means had failed to move, he offered, too,
his menaces in vain, denouncing vengeance on her
cruelty, demanding her to account for all her maintenance
from her childhood; seized on her little fortune
as his own inheritance, and was dragging her by violence
to prison, when Providence at the instant interposed,
and sent me, by miracle, to relieve her.<a name="FNanchor_126_126" id="FNanchor_126_126"></a><a href="#Footnote_126_126" class="fnanchor">[126]</a></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> 'Twas Providence, indeed. But pray, sir,
after all this trouble, how came this lady at last to England?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> The disappointed advocate, finding she had so
unexpected a support, on cooler thoughts, descended to
a composition, which I, without her knowledge, secretly
discharged.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> That generous concealment made the obligation
double.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Having thus obtained her liberty, I prevailed,
not without some difficulty, to see her safe to England;
where, no sooner arrived, but my father, jealous of my
being imprudently engaged, immediately proposed this
other fatal match that hangs upon my quiet.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I find, sir, you are irrecoverably fixed upon
this lady.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> As my vital life dwells in my heart—and yet you
see what I do to please my father: walk in this pageantry
of dress, this splendid covering of sorrow—But, Humphry,
you have your lesson.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_295" id="Page_295">[Pg 295]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Now, sir, I have but one material question——</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Ask it freely.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Is it, then, your own passion for this secret
lady, or hers for you, that gives you this aversion to the
match your father has proposed you?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> I shall appear, Humphry, more romantic in my
answer than in all the rest of my story; for though I
dote on her to death, and have no little reason to
believe she has the same thoughts for me, yet in all
my acquaintance and utmost privacies with her, I never
once directly told her that I loved.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> How was it possible to avoid it?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> My tender obligations to my father have laid so
inviolable a restraint upon my conduct that, till I have
his consent to speak, I am determined, on that subject,
to be dumb for ever.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Well, sir, to your praise be it spoken, you
are certainly the most unfashionable lover in Great
Britain.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir, Mr. Myrtle's at the next door, and, if you
are at leisure, will be glad to wait on you.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Whenever he pleases——hold, Tom! did you
receive no answer to my letter?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir, I was desired to call again; for I was told
her mother would not let her be out of her sight; but
about an hour hence, Mrs. Lettice said, I should certainly
have one.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Very well. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sir, I will take another opportunity. In the
meantime, I only think it proper to tell you that, from a
secret I know, you may appear to your father as forward
as you please, to marry Lucinda without the least hazard
of its coming to a conclusion—Sir, your most obedient
servant.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_296" id="Page_296">[Pg 296]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Honest Humphry, continue but my friend in
this exigence, and you shall always find me yours. [<i>Exit</i>
<span class="smcap">Humph.</span>]—I long to hear how my letter has succeeded
with Lucinda—but I think it cannot fail; for, at worst,
were it possible she could take it ill, her resentment of
my indifference may as probably occasion a delay as her
taking it right. Poor Myrtle, what terrors must he be in
all this while? Since he knows she is offered to me, and
refused to him, there is no conversing or taking any
measures with him for his own service.—But I
ought to bear with my friend, and use him as one in
adversity—</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">All his disquiets by my own I prove,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The greatest grief's perplexity in love.</span><br />
[<i>Exit.</i><br />
</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_297" id="Page_297">[Pg 297]</a></span></p>




<h3>ACT THE SECOND.</h3>


<h4>SCENE I.—<span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.'s</span> <i>Lodgings.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir, Mr. Myrtle.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Very well, do you step
again, and wait for an answer to my
letter. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Myrtle</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Well, Charles, why so
much care in thy countenance? Is
there anything in this world deserves it? You, who
used to be so gay, so open, so vacant!</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> I think we have of late changed complexions.
You, who used to be much the graver man, are now all
air in your behaviour.—But the cause of my concern may,
for aught I know, be the same object that gives you all
this satisfaction. In a word, I am told that you are this
very day—and your dress confirms me in it—to be married
to Lucinda.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> You are not misinformed.—Nay, put not on
the terrors of a rival till you hear me out. I shall disoblige
the best of fathers if I don't seem ready to marry
Lucinda; and you know I have ever told you you might
make use of my secret resolution never to marry her for<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_298" id="Page_298">[Pg 298]</a></span>
your own service as you please; but I am now driven to
the extremity of immediately refusing or complying unless
you help me to escape the match.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Escape? Sir, neither her merit or her fortune
are below your acceptance—Escaping do you
call it?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Dear sir, do you wish I should desire the
match?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> No; but such is my humorous and sickly state
of mind since it has been able to relish nothing but
Lucinda, that though I must owe my happiness to your
aversion to this marriage, I can't bear to hear her spoken
of with levity or unconcern.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Pardon me, sir, I shall transgress that way
no more. She has understanding, beauty, shape,
complexion, wit——</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Nay, dear Bevil, don't speak of her as if you
loved her neither.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Why, then, to give you ease at once, though
I allow Lucinda to have good sense, wit, beauty, and
virtue, I know another in whom these qualities appear to
me more amiable than in her.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> There you spoke like a reasonable and good-natured
friend. When you acknowledge her merit, and
own your prepossession for another, at once you gratify
my fondness and cure my jealousy.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> But all this while you take no notice, you
have no apprehension, of another man that has twice the
fortune of either of us.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Cimberton!<a name="FNanchor_127_127" id="FNanchor_127_127"></a><a href="#Footnote_127_127" class="fnanchor">[127]</a> hang him, a formal, philosophical,
pedantic coxcomb; for the sot, with all these crude
notions of divers things, under the direction of great
vanity and very little judgment, shows his strongest bias
is avarice; which is so predominant in him that he will
examine the limbs of his mistress with the caution of a<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_299" id="Page_299">[Pg 299]</a></span>
jockey, and pays no more compliment to her personal
charms than if she were a mere breeding animal.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Are you sure that is not affected? I have
known some women sooner set on fire by that sort of
negligence than by——</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> No, no; hang him, the rogue has no art; it is
pure, simple insolence and stupidity.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Yet, with all this, I don't take him for a fool.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> I own the man is not a natural; he has a very
quick sense, though very slow understanding. He says,
indeed, many things that want only the circumstances of
time and place to be very just and agreeable.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Well, you may be sure of me if you can disappoint
him; but my intelligence says the mother has
actually sent for the conveyancer to draw articles for his
marriage with Lucinda, though those for mine with her
are, by her father's orders, ready for signing; but it
seems she has not thought fit to consult either him or his
daughter in the matter.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Pshaw! a poor troublesome woman. Neither
Lucinda nor her father will ever be brought to comply
with it. Besides, I am sure Cimberton can make no
settlement upon her without the concurrence of his
great uncle, Sir Geoffry, in the west.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Well, sir, and I can tell you that's the very
point that is now laid before her counsel, to know
whether a firm settlement can be made without his
uncle's actual joining in it. Now, pray consider, sir,
when my affair with Lucinda comes, as it soon must, to
an open rupture, how are you sure that Cimberton's
fortune may not then tempt her father, too, to hear his
proposals?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> There you are right, indeed; that must be provided
against. Do you know who are her counsel?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun. Yes,</i> for your service I have found out that,
too. They are Serjeant Bramble and Old Target—by<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_300" id="Page_300">[Pg 300]</a></span>
the way, they are neither of them known in the family.
Now, I was thinking why you might not put a couple of
false counsel upon her to delay and confound matters a
little; besides, it may probably let you into the bottom
of her whole design against you.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> As how, pray?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Why, can't you slip on a black wig and a
gown, and be Old Bramble yourself?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Ha! I don't dislike it.—But what shall I do for
a brother in the case?</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> What think you of my fellow, Tom? The
rogue's intelligent, and is a good mimic. All his part
will be but to stutter heartily, for that's old Target's case.
Nay, it would be an immoral thing to mock him were it
not that his impertinence is the occasion of its breaking
out to that degree. The conduct of the scene will chiefly
lie upon you.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> I like it of all things. If you'll send Tom to
my chambers, I will give him full instructions. This will
certainly give me occasion to raise difficulties, to puzzle
or confound her project for a while at least.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> I'll warrant you success.—So far we are
right, then. And now, Charles, your apprehension of my
marrying her is all you have to get over.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Dear Bevil, though I know you are my friend,
yet when I abstract myself from my own interest in the
thing, I know no objection she can make to you, or you
to her, and therefore hope——</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Dear Myrtle, I am as much obliged to you
for the cause of your suspicion, as I am offended at the
effect; but, be assured, I am taking measures for your
certain security, and that all things with regard to me
will end in your entire satisfaction.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Well, I'll promise you to be as easy and as confident
as I can, though I cannot but remember that I
have more than life at stake on your fidelity. [<i>Going.</i></p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_301" id="Page_301">[Pg 301]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Then depend upon it, you have no chance
against you.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Nay, no ceremony, you know I must be going.
[<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Myrt.</span></p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Well, this is another instance of the perplexities
which arise, too, in faithful friendship. We must
often in this life go on in our good offices, even
under the displeasure of those to whom we do them, in
compassion to their weaknesses and mistakes.—But all
this while poor Indiana is tortured with the doubt of me.
She has no support or comfort but in my fidelity, yet sees
me daily pressed to marriage with another. How painful,
in such a crisis, must be every hour she thinks on me!
I'll let her see at least my conduct to her is not changed.
I'll take this opportunity to visit her; for though the
religious vow I have made to my father restrains me from
ever marrying without his approbation, yet that confines
me not from seeing a virtuous woman that is the pure
delight of my eyes and the guiltless joy of my heart.
But the best condition of human life is but a gentler
misery—</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">To hope for perfect happiness is vain,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And love has ever its allays of pain. [<i>Exit.</i></span><br />
</p>


<h4>SCENE II.—<span class="smcap">Indiana's</span> <i>Lodgings.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Isabella</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Yes, I say 'tis artifice, dear child. I say to thee
again and again 'tis all skill and management.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Will you persuade me there can be an ill design
in supporting me in the condition of a woman of quality?
attended, dressed, and lodged like one; in my appearance
abroad and my furniture at home, every way in the most<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_302" id="Page_302">[Pg 302]</a></span>
sumptuous manner, and he that does it has an artifice,
a design in it?</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Yes, yes.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> And all this without so much as explaining to me
that all about me comes from him!</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ay, ay, the more for that. That keeps the title
to all you have the more in him.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> The more in him! He scorns the thought——</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Then he—he—he——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Well, be not so eager. If he is an ill man, let
us look into his stratagems. Here is another of them.
[<i>Showing a letter.</i>] Here's two hundred and fifty pounds
in bank notes, with these words: "To pay for the set of
dressing-plate which will be brought home to-morrow."
Why, dear aunt, now here's another piece of skill for
you, which I own I cannot comprehend; and it is with a
bleeding heart I hear you say anything to the disadvantage
of Mr. Bevil. When he is present I look upon him
as one to whom I owe my life and the support of it;
then, again, as the man who loves me with sincerity and
honour. When his eyes are cast another way, and I dare
survey him, my heart is painfully divided between shame
and love. Oh! could I tell you——</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ah! you need not; I imagine all this for you.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> This is my state of mind in his presence; and
when he is absent, you are ever dinning my ears with
notions of the arts of men; that his hidden bounty, his
respectful conduct, his careful provision for me, after his
preserving me from utmost misery, are certain signs he
means nothing but to make I know not what of me.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Oh! You have a sweet opinion of him, truly.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I have, when I am with him, ten thousand
things, besides my sex's natural decency and shame, to
suppress my heart, that yearns to thank, to praise, to say
it loves him. I say, thus it is with me while I see him;
and in his absence I am entertained with nothing but<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_303" id="Page_303">[Pg 303]</a></span>
your endeavours to tear this amiable image from my
heart; and in its stead, to place a base dissembler, an
artful invader of my happiness, my innocence, my honour.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ah, poor soul! has not his plot taken? don't
you die for him? has not the way he has taken, been the
most proper with you? Oh! oh! He has sense, and
has judged the thing right.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Go on then, since nothing can answer you; say
what you will of him. Heigh! ho!</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Heigh! ho! indeed. It is better to say so, as
you are now, than as many others are. There are, among
the destroyers of women, the gentle, the generous, the
mild, the affable, the humble, who all, soon after their
success in their designs, turn to the contrary of those
characters. I will own to you, Mr. Bevil carries his
hypocrisy the best of any man living, but still he is a
man, and therefore a hypocrite. They have usurped an
exemption from shame for any baseness, any cruelty
towards us. They embrace without love; they make
vows without conscience of obligation; they are partners,
nay, seducers to the crime, wherein they pretend to be
less guilty.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> That's truly observed. [<i>Aside.</i>]—But what's all
this to Bevil?</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> This it is to Bevil and all mankind. Trust not
those who will think the worse of you for your confidence
in them; serpents who lie in wait for doves. Won't you
be on your guard against those who would betray you?
Won't you doubt those who would contemn you for believing
'em? Take it from me, fair and natural dealing is to
invite injuries; 'tis bleating to escape wolves who would
devour you! Such is the world—[<i>Aside.</i>] and such
(since the behaviour of one man to myself) have I
believed all the rest of the sex.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I will not doubt the truth of Bevil, I will not
doubt it. He has not spoke of it by an organ that is<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_304" id="Page_304">[Pg 304]</a></span>
given to lying. His eyes are all that have ever told me
that he was mine. I know his virtue, I know his filial
piety, and ought to trust his management with a father
to whom he has uncommon obligations. What have I
to be concerned for? my lesson is very short. If he
takes me for ever, my purpose of life is only to please
him. If he leaves me (which Heaven avert) I know
he'll do it nobly, and I shall have nothing to do but to
learn to die, after worse than death has happened to me.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ay, do, persist in your credulity! flatter yourself
that a man of his figure and fortune will make himself
the jest of the town, and marry a handsome beggar for
love.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> The town! I must tell you, madam, the fools
that laugh at Mr. Bevil will but make themselves more
ridiculous; his actions are the result of thinking, and he
has sense enough to make even virtue fashionable.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> O' my conscience he has turned her head.—Come,
come, if he were the honest fool you take him for,
why has he kept you here these three weeks, without
sending you to Bristol in search of your father, your
family, and your relations?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I am convinced he still designs it, and that
nothing keeps him here, but the necessity of coming to a
breach with his father in regard to the match he has
proposed him. Beside, has he not writ to Bristol? and
has not he advice that my father has not been heard of
there almost these twenty years?</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> All sham, mere evasion; he is afraid, if he
should carry you thither, your honest relations may take
you out of his hands, and so blow up all his wicked
hopes at once.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Wicked hopes! did I ever give him any such?</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Has he ever given you any honest ones? Can
you say, in your conscience, he has ever once offered to
marry you?</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_305" id="Page_305">[Pg 305]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No! but by his behaviour I am convinced he
will offer it, the moment 'tis in his power, or consistent
with his honour, to make such a promise good to me.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> His honour!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I will rely upon it; therefore desire you will not
make my life uneasy, by these ungrateful jealousies of
one, to whom I am, and wish to be, obliged. For from
his integrity alone, I have resolved to hope for happiness.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Nay, I have done my duty; if you won't see, at
your peril be it!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Let it be—This is his hour of visiting me.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Oh! to be sure, keep up your form; don't see
him in a bed-chamber—[<i>Apart.</i>] This is pure prudence,
when she is liable, wherever he meets her, to be conveyed
where'er he pleases.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> All the rest of my life is but waiting till he comes.
I live only when I'm with him. [<i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Well, go thy ways, thou wilful innocent!—[<i>Aside.</i>]
I once had almost as much love for a man, who poorly
left me to marry an estate; and I am now, against my
will, what they call an old maid—but I will not let the
peevishness of that condition grow upon me, only keep
up the suspicion of it, to prevent this creature's being
any other than a virgin, except upon proper terms.
[<i>Exit.</i></p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Re-enter</i> <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>, <i>speaking to a Servant.</i></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Desire Mr. Bevil to walk in—Design! impossible!
A base designing mind could never think of what
he hourly puts in practice. And yet, since the late
rumour of his marriage, he seems more reserved than
formerly—he sends in too, before he sees me, to know if
I am at leisure—such new respects may cover coldness in
the heart; it certainly makes me thoughtful—I'll know
the worst at once; I'll lay such fair occasions in his way,<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_306" id="Page_306">[Pg 306]</a></span>
that it shall be impossible to avoid an explanation, for
these doubts are insupportable!—But see, he comes, and
clears them all.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Bevil</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Madam, your most obedient—I am afraid I
broke in upon your rest last night; 'twas very late before
we parted, but 'twas your own fault. I never saw you in
such agreeable humour.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I am extremely glad we were both pleased; for I
thought I never saw you better company.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Me, madam! you rally; I said very little.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> But I am afraid you heard me say a great deal;
and, when a woman is in the talking vein, the most
agreeable thing a man can do, you know, is to have
patience to hear her.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Then it's pity, madam, you should ever be silent,
that we might be always agreeable to one another.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> If I had your talent or power, to make my actions
speak for me, I might indeed be silent, and you pretend
to something more than the agreeable.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> If I might be vain of anything in my power,
madam, 'tis that my understanding, from all your sex,
has marked you out as the most deserving object of my
esteem.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Should I think I deserve this, 'twere enough to
make my vanity forfeit the very esteem you offer me.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> How so, madam?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Because esteem is the result of reason, and to
deserve it from good sense, the height of human glory.
Nay, I had rather a man of honour should pay me that,
than all the homage of a sincere and humble love.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> You certainly distinguish right, madam; love
often kindles from external merit only.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> But esteem rises from a higher source, the merit
of the soul.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_307" id="Page_307">[Pg 307]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> True—And great souls only can deserve it.
[<i>Bowing respectfully.</i></p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Now I think they are greater still, that can so
charitably part with it.</p>

<p><i>Bey. Jun.</i> Now, madam, you make me vain, since the
utmost pride and pleasure of my life is, that I esteem
you as I ought.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> [<i>Aside.</i>] As he ought! still more perplexing!
he neither saves nor kills my hope.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> But, madam, we grow grave, methinks. Let's
find some other subject—Pray how did you like the
opera last night?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> First give me leave to thank you for my tickets.</p>

<p><i>Bey. Jun.</i> Oh! your servant, madam. But pray tell
me, you now, who are never partial to the fashion, I
fancy must be the properest judge of a mighty dispute
among the ladies, that is, whether <i>Crispo</i> or <i>Griselda</i><a name="FNanchor_128_128" id="FNanchor_128_128"></a><a href="#Footnote_128_128" class="fnanchor">[128]</a> is
the more agreeable entertainment.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> With submission now, I cannot be a proper
judge of this question.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> How so, madam?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Because I find I have a partiality for one of
them.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Pray which is that?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I do not know; there's something in that rural
cottage of Griselda, her forlorn condition, her poverty,
her solitude, her resignation, her innocent slumbers, and
that lulling <i>dolce sogno</i> that's sung over her; it had an
effect upon me that—in short I never was so well deceived,
at any of them.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> Oh! Now then, I can account for the dispute.
Griselda, it seems, is the distress of an injured<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_308" id="Page_308">[Pg 308]</a></span>
innocent woman, Crispo, that only of a man in the
same condition; therefore the men are mostly concerned
for Crispo, and, by a natural indulgence, both sexes for
Griselda.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> So that judgment, you think, ought to be for
one, though fancy and complaisance have got ground
for the other. Well! I believe you will never give me
leave to dispute with you on any subject; for I own,
Crispo has its charms for me too. Though in the main,
all the pleasure the best opera gives us is but mere
sensation. Methinks it's pity the mind can't have a
little more share in the entertainment. The music's certainly
fine, but, in my thoughts, there's none of your
composers come up to old Shakespeare and Otway.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> How, madam! why if a woman of your sense
were to say this in a drawing-room——</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter a</i> <span class="smcap">Servant</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Serv.</i> Sir, here's Signor Carbonelli<a name="FNanchor_129_129" id="FNanchor_129_129"></a><a href="#Footnote_129_129" class="fnanchor">[129]</a> says he waits your
commands in the next room.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Apropos! you were saying yesterday, madam,
you had a mind to hear him. Will you give him leave
to entertain you now?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> By all means; desire the gentleman to walk in.
[<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Servant</span>.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> I fancy you will find something in this hand that
is uncommon.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> You are always finding ways, Mr. Bevil, to make
life seem less tedious to me.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Music Master</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p>When the gentleman pleases.</p>

<blockquote>

<p>[<i>After a Sonata is played,</i> <span class="smcap">Bevil</span> <i>waits on the
Master to the door, etc.</i>]</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Bev.</i> You smile, madam, to see me so complaisant to<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_309" id="Page_309">[Pg 309]</a></span>
one whom I pay for his visit. Now, I own, I think it is
not enough barely to pay those whose talents are superior
to our own (I mean such talents as would become our
condition, if we had them). Methinks we ought to do
something more than barely gratify them for what they
do at our command, only because their fortune is below
us.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> You say I smile. I assure you it was a smile of
approbation; for, indeed, I cannot but think it the distinguishing
part of a gentleman to make his superiority
of fortune as easy to his inferiors as he can.—Now once
more to try him. [<i>Aside.</i>]—I was saying just now, I
believed you would never let me dispute with you, and I
daresay it will always be so. However, I must have
your opinion upon a subject which created a debate
between my aunt and me, just before you came hither;
she would needs have it that no man ever does any
extraordinary kindness or service for a woman, but for
his own sake.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Well, madam! Indeed I can't but be of her
mind.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> What, though he should maintain and support
her, without demanding anything of her, on her part?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Why, madam, is making an expense in the service
of a valuable woman (for such I must suppose her),
though she should never do him any favour, nay, though
she should never know who did her such service, such a
mighty heroic business?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Certainly! I should think he must be a man of
an uncommon mould.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Dear madam, why so? 'tis but, at best, a better
taste in expense. To bestow upon one, whom he may
think one of the ornaments of the whole creation, to be
conscious, that from his superfluity, an innocent, a
virtuous spirit is supported above the temptations and
sorrows of life! That he sees satisfaction, health, and<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_310" id="Page_310">[Pg 310]</a></span>
gladness in her countenance, while he enjoys the happiness
of seeing her (as that I will suppose too, or he must
be too abstracted, too insensible), I say, if he is allowed
to delight in that prospect; alas, what mighty matter is
there in all this?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No mighty matter in so disinterested a friendship!</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Disinterested! I can't think him so; your hero,
madam, is no more than what every gentleman ought to
be, and I believe very many are. He is only one who
takes more delight in reflections than in sensations. He is
more pleased with thinking than eating; that's the utmost
you can say of him. Why, madam, a greater expense
than all this, men lay out upon an unnecessary stable of
horses.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Can you be sincere in what you say?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> You may depend upon it, if you know any such
man, he does not love dogs inordinately.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No, that he does not.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Nor cards, nor dice.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Nor bottle companions.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Nor loose women.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No, I'm sure he does not.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Take my word then, if your admired hero is not
liable to any of these kind of demands, there's no such
pre-eminence in this as you imagine. Nay, this way of
expense you speak of is what exalts and raises him that
has a taste for it; and, at the same time, his delight is
incapable of satiety, disgust, or penitence.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> But still I insist his having no private interest in
the action, makes it prodigious, almost incredible.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Dear madam, I never knew you more mistaken.
Why, who can be more a usurer than he who lays out
his money in such valuable purchases? If pleasure be<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_311" id="Page_311">[Pg 311]</a></span>
worth purchasing, how great a pleasure is it to him, who
has a true taste of life, to ease an aching heart; to see the
human countenance lighted up into smiles of joy, on the
receipt of a bit of ore which is superfluous and otherwise
useless in a man's own pocket? What could a man do
better with his cash? This is the effect of a human
disposition, where there is only a general tie of nature
and common necessity. What then must it be when we
serve an object of merit, of admiration!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Well! the more you argue against it the more I
shall admire the generosity.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Nay, nay—Then, madam, 'tis time to fly, after a
declaration that my opinion strengthens my adversary's
argument. I had best hasten to my appointment with
Mr. Myrtle, and begone while we are friends, and before
things are brought to an extremity. [<i>Exit, carelessly.</i></p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Isabella</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Well, madam, what think you of him now, pray?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I protest, I begin to fear he is wholly disinterested
in what he does for me. On my heart, he has no
other view but the mere pleasure of doing it, and has
neither good or bad designs upon me.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ah! dear niece! don't be in fear of both! I'll
warrant you, you will know time enough that he is not
indifferent.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> You please me when you tell me so; for, if he
has any wishes towards me, I know he will not pursue
them but with honour.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> I wish I were as confident of one as t'other. I
saw the respectful downcast of his eye, when you caught
him gazing at you during the music. He, I warrant,
was surprised, as if he had been taken stealing your
watch. Oh! the undissembled guilty look!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> But did you observe any such thing, really? I
thought he looked most charmingly graceful! How<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_312" id="Page_312">[Pg 312]</a></span>
engaging is modesty in a man, when one knows there is
a great mind within. So tender a confusion! and yet, in
other respects, so much himself, so collected, so dauntless,
so determined!</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ah! niece! there is a sort of bashfulness which
is the best engine to carry on a shameless purpose. Some
men's modesty serves their wickedness, as hypocrisy
gains the respect due to piety. But I will own to you,
there is one hopeful symptom, if there could be such a
thing as a disinterested lover. But it's all a perplexity—till—till—till——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Till what?</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Till I know whether Mr. Myrtle and Mr. Bevil
are really friends or foes.—And that I will be convinced
of before I sleep; for you shall not be deceived.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I'm sure I never shall, if your fears can guard me.
In the meantime I'll wrap myself up in the integrity of
my own heart, nor dare to doubt of his.</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">As conscious honour all his actions steers,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">So conscious innocence dispels my fears. [<i>Exeunt.</i></span><br />
</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_313" id="Page_313">[Pg 313]</a></span></p>




<h3>ACT THE THIRD.<a name="FNanchor_130_130" id="FNanchor_130_130"></a><a href="#Footnote_130_130" class="fnanchor">[130]</a></h3>


<h4>SCENE.—<span class="smcap">Sealand's</span> <i>House.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>, <i>meeting</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Well, Phillis! What, with a face
as if you had never seen me before!—What
a work have I to do now?
She has seen some new visitant at
their house whose airs she has caught,
and is resolved to practise them
upon me. Numberless are the
changes she'll dance through before she'll answer this
plain question: videlicet, have you delivered my master's
letter to your lady? Nay, I know her too well to ask
an account of it in an ordinary way; I'll be in my airs as
well as she. [<i>Aside.</i>]—Well, madam, as unhappy as you
are at present pleased to make me, I would not, in the
general, be any other than what I am. I would not be
a bit wiser, a bit richer, a bit taller, a bit shorter than I
am at this instant. [<i>Looking steadfastly at her.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Did ever anybody doubt, Master Thomas, but
that you were extremely satisfied with your sweet self?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I am, indeed. The thing I have least reason to
be satisfied with is my fortune, and I am glad of my<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_314" id="Page_314">[Pg 314]</a></span>
poverty. Perhaps if I were rich I should overlook the
finest woman in the world, that wants nothing but riches
to be thought so.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> How prettily was that said! But I'll have a
great deal more before I'll say one word. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I should, perhaps, have been stupidly above her
had I not been her equal; and by not being her equal,
never had opportunity of being her slave. I am my
master's servant for hire—I am my mistress's from choice,
would she but approve my passion.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I think it's the first time I ever heard you speak
of it with any sense of the anguish, if you really do suffer
any.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Ah, Phillis! can you doubt, after what you have
seen?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I know not what I have seen, nor what I have
heard; but since I am at leisure, you may tell me when
you fell in love with me; how you fell in love with me;
and what you have suffered or are ready to suffer for
me.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Oh, the unmerciful jade! when I am in haste
about my master's letter. But I must go through it.
[<i>Aside.</i>]—Ah!<a name="FNanchor_131_131" id="FNanchor_131_131"></a><a href="#Footnote_131_131" class="fnanchor">[131]</a> too well I remember when, and how, and<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_315" id="Page_315">[Pg 315]</a></span>
on what occasion I was first surprised. It was on the
1st of April, 1715, I came into Mr. Sealand's service; I
was then a hobbledehoy, and you a pretty little tight
girl, a favourite handmaid of the housekeeper. At that
time we neither of us knew what was in us. I remember
I was ordered to get out of the window, one pair of
stairs, to rub the sashes clean; the person employed on
the inner side was your charming self, whom I had never
seen before.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I think I remember the silly accident. What
made ye, you oaf, ready to fall down into the street?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> You know not, I warrant you—you could not
guess what surprised me. You took no delight when
you immediately grew wanton in your conquest, and put
your lips close, and breathed upon the glass, and when
my lips approached, a dirty cloth you rubbed against my
face, and hid your beauteous form! When I again drew
near, you spit, and rubbed, and smiled at my undoing.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> What silly thoughts you men have!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> We were Pyramus and Thisbe—but ten times
harder was my fate. Pyramus could peep only through
a wall; I saw her, saw my Thisbe in all her beauty, but
as much kept from her as if a hundred walls between—for
there was more: there was her will against me.
Would she but yet relent! O Phillis! Phillis! shorten
my torment, and declare you pity me.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I believe it's very sufferable; the pain is not so
exquisite but that you may bear it a little longer.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Oh! my charming Phillis, if all depended on
my fair one's will, I could with glory suffer—but, dearest
creature, consider our miserable state.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> How! Miserable!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> We are miserable to be in love, and under the<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_316" id="Page_316">[Pg 316]</a></span>
command of others than those we love; with that generous
passion in the heart, to be sent to and fro on
errands, called, checked, and rated for the meanest
trifles. Oh, Phillis! you don't know how many china
cups and glasses my passion for you has made me break.
You have broke my fortune as well as my heart.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Well, Mr. Thomas, I cannot but own to you
that I believe your master writes and you speak the best
of any men in the world. Never was woman so well
pleased with a letter as my young lady was with his; and
this is an answer to it. [<i>Gives him a letter.</i></p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> This was well done, my dearest; consider, we
must strike out some pretty livelihood for ourselves by
closing their affairs. It will be nothing for them to give
us a little being of our own, some small tenement, out of
their large possessions. Whatever they give us, it will be
more than what they keep for themselves. One acre
with Phillis would be worth a whole county without her.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> O, could I but believe you!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> If not the utterance, believe the touch of my
lips. [<i>Kisses her.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> There's no contradicting you. How closely you
argue, Tom!</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> And will closer, in due time. But I must hasten
with this letter, to hasten towards the possession of you.
Then, Phillis, consider how I must be revenged, look to
it, of all your skittishness, shy looks, and at best but coy
compliances.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Oh, Tom, you grow wanton, and sensual, as my
lady calls it; I must not endure it. Oh! foh! you are
a man—an odious, filthy, male creature—you should behave,
if you had a right sense or were a man of sense,
like Mr. Cimberton, with distance and indifference; or,
let me see, some other becoming hard word, with seeming
in-in-inadvertency, and not rush on one as if you were
seizing a prey.—But hush! the ladies are coming.—Good<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_317" id="Page_317">[Pg 317]</a></span>
Tom, don't kiss me above once, and be gone. Lard, we
have been fooling and toying, and not considered the
main business of our masters and mistresses.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Why, their business is to be fooling and toying
as soon as the parchments are ready.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Well remembered, parchments; my lady, to my
knowledge, is preparing writings between her coxcomb
cousin, Cimberton, and my mistress, though my master
has an eye to the parchments already prepared between
your master, Mr. Bevil, and my mistress; and, I believe,
my mistress herself has signed and sealed, in her
heart, to Mr. Myrtle.—Did I not bid you kiss me but
once, and be gone? But I know you won't be satisfied.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> No, you smooth creature, how should I?
[<i>Kissing her hand.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Well, since you are so humble, or so cool, as to
ravish my hand only, I'll take my leave of you like a
great lady, and you a man of quality.
[<i>They salute formally.</i></p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Pox of all this state.
[<i>Offers to kiss her more closely.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> No, prithee, Tom, mind your business. We
must follow that interest which will take, but endeavour
at that which will be most for us, and we like most. Oh,
here is my young mistress! [<span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>taps her neck behind,
and kisses his fingers.</i>] Go, ye liquorish fool. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Who was that you were hurrying away?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> One that I had no mind to part with.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Why did you turn him away then?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> For your ladyship's service—to carry your ladyship's
letter to his master. I could hardly get the rogue
away.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Why, has he so little love for his master?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> No; but he hath so much love for his mistress.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_318" id="Page_318">[Pg 318]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> But I thought I heard him kiss you. Why did
you suffer that?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Why, madam, we vulgar take it to be a sign of
love—We servants, we poor people, that have nothing
but our persons to bestow or treat for, are forced to deal
and bargain by way of sample, and therefore as we have
no parchments or wax necessary in our agreements, we
squeeze with our hands and seal with our lips, to ratify
vows and promises.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> But can't you trust one another without such
earnest down?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> We don't think it safe, any more than you gentry,
to come together without deeds executed.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Thou art a pert merry hussy.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I wish, madam, your lover and you were as
happy as Tom and your servant are.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> You grow impertinent.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I have done, madam; and I won't ask you what
you intend to do with Mr. Myrtle, what your father will
do with Mr. Bevil, nor what you all, especially my lady,
mean by admitting Mr. Cimberton as particularly here
as if he were married to you already; nay, you are married
actually as far as people of quality are.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> How is that?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> You have different beds in the same house.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Pshaw! I have a very great value for Mr. Bevil,
but have absolutely put an end to his pretensions in the
letter I gave you for him. But my father, in his heart,
still has a mind to him, were it not for this woman they
talk of; and I am apt to imagine he is married to her,
or never designs to marry at all.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Then Mr. Myrtle——</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> He had my parents' leave to apply to me, and by
that he has won me and my affections; who is to have
this body of mine without them, it seems, is nothing to
me. My mother says 'tis indecent for me to let my<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_319" id="Page_319">[Pg 319]</a></span>
thoughts stray about the person of my husband; nay,
she says a maid, rigidly virtuous, though she may have
been where her lover was a thousand times, should not
have made observations enough to know him from
another man when she sees him in a third place.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> That is more than the severity of a nun, for not
to see when one may is hardly possible; not to see when
one can't is very easy. At this rate, madam, there are a
great many whom you have not seen who——</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Mamma says the first time you see your husband
should be at that instant he is made so. When your
father, with the help of the minister, gives you to him,
then you are to see him; then you are to observe and
take notice of him; because then you are to obey him.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> But does not my lady remember you are to love
as well as obey?</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> To love is a passion, it is a desire, and we must
have no desires.—Oh, I cannot endure the reflection!
With what insensibility on my part, with what more than
patience have I been exposed and offered to some awkward
booby or other in every county of Great Britain!</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Indeed, madam, I wonder I never heard you
speak of it before with this indignation.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Every corner of the land has presented me with
a wealthy coxcomb. As fast as one treaty has gone off,
another has come on, till my name and person have been
the tittle-tattle of the whole town. What is this world
come to?—no shame left—to be bartered for like the
beasts of the field, and that in such an instance as coming
together to an entire familiarity and union of soul
and body. Oh! and this without being so much as well-wishers
to each other, but for increase of fortune.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> But, madam, all these vexations will end very
soon in one for all. Mr. Cimberton is your mother's
kinsman, and three hundred years an older gentleman
than any lover you ever had; for which reason, with that<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_320" id="Page_320">[Pg 320]</a></span>
of his prodigious large estate, she is resolved on him, and
has sent to consult the lawyers accordingly; nay, has
(whether you know it or no) been in treaty with Sir
Geoffry, who, to join in the settlement, has accepted of a
sum to do it, and is every moment expected in town for
that purpose.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> How do you get all this intelligence?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> By an art I have, I thank my stars, beyond all
the waiting-maids in Great Britain—the art of listening,
madam, for your ladyship's service.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> I shall soon know as much as you do; leave me,
leave me, Phillis, begone. Here, here! I'll turn you
out. My mother says I must not converse with my servants,
though I must converse with no one else. [<i>Exit</i>
<span class="smcap">Phil.</span>]—How unhappy are we who are born to great
fortunes! No one looks at us with indifference, or acts
towards us on the foot of plain dealing; yet, by all I
have been heretofore offered to or treated for I have been
used with the most agreeable of all abuses—flattery. But
now, by this phlegmatic fool I'm used as nothing, or a
mere thing. He, forsooth, is too wise, too learned to
have any regard for desires, and I know not what the
learned oaf calls sentiments of love and passion—Here
he comes with my mother—It's much if he looks at me,
or if he does, takes no more notice of me than of any
other movable in the room.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Sealand</span>, <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Mr. Cimberton</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> How do I admire this noble, this learned
taste of yours, and the worthy regard you have to our
own ancient and honourable house in consulting a means
to keep the blood as pure and as regularly descended as
may be.</p>

<p><i>Cim.</i> Why, really, madam, the young women of this
age are treated with discourses of such a tendency, and<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_321" id="Page_321">[Pg 321]</a></span>
their imaginations so bewildered in flesh and blood, that
a man of reason can't talk to be understood. They
have no ideas of happiness, but what are more gross than
the gratification of hunger and thirst.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> With how much reflection he is a coxcomb!
[<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Cim.</i> And in truth, madam, I have considered it as a
most brutal custom that persons of the first character in
the world should go as ordinarily, and with as little shame,
to bed as to dinner with one another. They proceed to
the propagation of the species as openly as to the preservation
of the individual.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> She that willingly goes to bed to thee must have
no shame, I'm sure. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Oh, cousin Cimberton! cousin Cimberton!
how abstracted, how refined is your sense of things! But,
indeed, it is too true there is nothing so ordinary as to
say, in the best governed families, my master and lady
have gone to bed; one does not know but it might
have been said of one's self. [<i>Hiding her face with her fan.</i></p>

<p><i>Cim.</i> Lycurgus, madam, instituted otherwise; among
the Lacedæmonians the whole female world was pregnant,
but none but the mothers themselves knew by whom;
their meetings were secret, and the amorous congress
always by stealth; and no such professed doings between
the sexes as are tolerated among us under the audacious
word, marriage.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Oh, had I lived in those days and been a
matron of Sparta, one might with less indecency have
had ten children, according to that modest institution,
than one, under the confusion of our modern, barefaced
manner.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> And yet, poor woman, she has gone through the
whole ceremony, and here I stand a melancholy proof of
it. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> We will talk then of business. That girl<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_322" id="Page_322">[Pg 322]</a></span>
walking about the room there is to be your wife. She
has, I confess, no ideas, no sentiments, that speak her
born of a thinking mother.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> I have observed her; her lively look, free air,
and disengaged countenance speak her very——</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Very what?</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> If you please, madam—to set her a little that
way.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Lucinda, say nothing to him, you are not
a match for him; when you are married, you may speak
to such a husband when you're spoken to. But I am
disposing of you above yourself every way.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Madam, you cannot but observe the inconveniences
I expose myself to, in hopes that your ladyship
will be the consort of my better part. As for the
young woman, she is rather an impediment than a help
to a man of letters and speculation. Madam, there is no
reflection, no philosophy, can at all times subdue the
sensitive life, but the animal shall sometimes carry away
the man. Ha! ay, the vermilion of her lips.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Pray, don't talk of me thus.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> The pretty enough—pant of her bosom.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Sir! madam, don't you hear him?</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Her forward chest.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Intolerable!</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> High health.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> The grave, easy impudence of him!</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Proud heart.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Stupid coxcomb!</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> I say, madam, her impatience, while we are
looking at her, throws out all attractions—her arms—her
neck—what a spring in her step!</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Don't you run me over thus, you strange unaccountable!</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> What an elasticity in her veins and arteries!</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> I have no veins, no arteries.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_323" id="Page_323">[Pg 323]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Oh, child! hear him, he talks finely; he's a
scholar, he knows what you have.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> The speaking invitation of her shape, the
gathering of herself up, and the indignation you see in
the pretty little thing—Now, I am considering her, on
this occasion, but as one that is to be pregnant.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> The familiar, learned, unseasonable puppy!
[<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> And pregnant undoubtedly she will be yearly.
I fear I shan't, for many years, have discretion enough to
give her one fallow season.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Monster! there's no bearing it. The hideous
sot! there's no enduring it, to be thus surveyed like a
steed at sale.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> At sale! She's very illiterate—But she's very
well limbed too; turn her in; I see what she is.
[<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span>, <i>in a rage.</i></p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Go, you creature, I am ashamed of you.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> No harm done—you know, madam, the better
sort of people, as I observed to you, treat by their lawyers
of weddings [<i>Adjusting himself at the glass.</i>]—and the
woman in the bargain, like the mansion house in the
sale of the estate, is thrown in, and what that is, whether
good or bad, is not at all considered.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> I grant it; and therefore make no demand
for her youth and beauty, and every other accomplishment,
as the common world think 'em, because she is
not polite.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Madam, I know your exalted understanding,
abstracted, as it is, from vulgar prejudices, will not be
offended, when I declare to you, I marry to have an heir
to my estate, and not to beget a colony, or a plantation.
This young woman's beauty and constitution will demand
provision for a tenth child at least.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> With all that wit and learning, how considerate!
What an economist! [<i>Aside.</i>]—Sir, I cannot<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_324" id="Page_324">[Pg 324]</a></span>
make her any other than she is; or say she is much
better than the other young women of this age, or fit for
much besides being a mother; but I have given directions
for the marriage settlements, and Sir Geoffry Cimberton's
counsel is to meet ours here, at this hour, concerning
this joining in the deed, which, when executed,
makes you capable of settling what is due to Lucinda's
fortune. Herself, as I told you, I say nothing of.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> No, no, no, indeed, madam, it is not usual; and
I must depend upon my own reflection and philosophy
not to overstock my family.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> I cannot help her, cousin Cimberton; but
she is, for aught I see, as well as the daughter of anybody
else.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> That is very true, madam.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter a</i> Servant, <i>who whispers</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Sealand</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> The lawyers are come, and now we are to
hear what they have resolved as to the point whether it's
necessary that Sir Geoffry should join in the settlement,
as being what they call in the remainder. But, good
cousin, you must have patience with 'em. These lawyers,
I am told, are of a different kind; one is what they call a
chamber counsel, the other a pleader. The conveyancer
is slow, from an imperfection in his speech, and therefore
shunned the bar, but extremely passionate and impatient
of contradiction. The other is as warm as he; but has
a tongue so voluble, and a head so conceited, he will
suffer nobody to speak but himself.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> You mean old Serjeant Target and Counsellor
Bramble? I have heard of 'em.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> The same. Show in the gentlemen.
[<i>Exit</i> Servant.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Re-enter</i> Servant, <i>introducing</i> <span class="smcap">Myrtle</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>disguised
as</i> <span class="smcap">Bramble</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Target</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Gentlemen, this is the party concerned,<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_325" id="Page_325">[Pg 325]</a></span>
Mr. Cimberton; and I hope you have considered of the
matter.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> Yes, madam, we have agreed that it must be by
indent——dent——dent——dent——</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> Yes, madam, Mr. Serjeant and myself have
agreed, as he is pleased to inform you, that it must be
an indenture tripartite,<a name="FNanchor_132_132" id="FNanchor_132_132"></a><a href="#Footnote_132_132" class="fnanchor">[132]</a> and tripartite let it be, for Sir
Geoffry must needs be a party; old Cimberton, in the
year 1619, says, in that ancient roll in Mr. Serjeant's
hands, as recourse thereto being had, will more at large
appear——</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> Yes, and by the deeds in your hands, it appears
that——</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> Mr. Serjeant, I beg of you to make no inferences
upon what is in our custody; but speak to the
titles in your own deeds. I shall not show that deed till
my client is in town.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> You know best your own methods.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> The single question is, whether the entail
is such that my cousin, Sir Geoffry, is necessary in this
affair?</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> Yes, as to the lordship of Tretriplet, but not as
to the messuage of Grimgribber.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> I say that Gr—gr—that Gr—gr—Grimgribber,
Grimgribber is in us; that is to say the remainder
thereof, as well as that of Tr—tr—Triplet.</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> You go upon the deed of Sir Ralph, made in
the middle of the last century, precedent to that in which
old Cimberton made over the remainder, and made it
pass to the heirs general, by which your client comes in;
and I question whether the remainder even of Tretriplet
is in him—But we are willing to waive that, and give
him a valuable consideration. But we shall not purchase<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_326" id="Page_326">[Pg 326]</a></span>
what is in us for ever, as Grimgribber is, at the rate, as
we guard against the contingent of Mr. Cimberton having
no son—Then we know Sir Geoffry is the first of the
collateral male line in this family—yet——</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> Sir, Gr——gr——ber is——</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> I apprehend you very well, and your argument
might be of force, and we would be inclined to hear that
in all its parts—But, sir, I see very plainly what you are
going into. I tell you, it is as probable a contingent
that Sir Geoffry may die before Mr. Cimberton, as that
he may outlive him.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> Sir, we are not ripe for that yet, but I must
say——</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> Sir, I allow you the whole extent of that argument;
but that will go no farther than as to the claimants
under old Cimberton. I am of opinion that, according
to the instruction of Sir Ralph, he could not dock the
entail, and then create a new estate for the heirs general.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> Sir, I have not patience to be told that, when
Gr——gr——ber——</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> I will allow it you, Mr. Serjeant; but there
must be the word heirs for ever, to make such an estate
as you pretend.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> I must be impartial, though you are counsel for
my side of the question. Were it not that you are so
good as to allow him what he has not said, I should
think it very hard you should answer him without hearing
him—But, gentlemen, I believe you have both considered
this matter, and are firm in your different opinions.
'Twere better, therefore, you proceeded according to the
particular sense of each of you, and gave your thoughts
distinctly in writing. And do you see, sirs, pray let me
have a copy of what you say in English.</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> Why, what is all we have been saying? In
English! Oh! but I forget myself, you're a wit. But,<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_327" id="Page_327">[Pg 327]</a></span>
however, to please you, sir, you shall have it, in as plain
terms as the law will admit of.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> But I would have it, sir, without delay.</p>

<p><i>Bram.</i> That, sir, the law will not admit of. The
Courts are sitting at Westminster, and I am this moment
obliged to be at every one of them, and 'twould be wrong
if I should not be in the hall to attend one of 'em at
least; the rest would take it ill else. Therefore, I must
leave what I have said to Mr. Serjeant's consideration,
and I will digest his arguments on my part, and you
shall hear from me again, sir. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Bramble</span>.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> Agreed, agreed.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Mr. Bramble is very quick; he parted a little
abruptly.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> He could not bear my argument; I pinched
him to the quick about that Gr——gr——ber.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> I saw that, for he durst not so much as
hear you. I shall send to you, Mr. Serjeant, as soon as
Sir Geoffry comes to town, and then I hope all may be
adjusted.</p>

<p><i>Tar.</i> I shall be at my chambers, at my usual hours.
[<i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Madam, if you please, I'll now attend you to
the tea table, where I shall hear from your ladyship
reason and good sense, after all this law and gibberish.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> 'Tis a wonderful thing, sir, that men of professions
do not study to talk the substance of what they
have to say in the language of the rest of the world.
Sure, they'd find their account in it.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> They might, perhaps, madam, with people of
your good sense; but with the generality 'twould never
do. The vulgar would have no respect for truth and
knowledge, if they were exposed to naked view.</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Truth is too simple, of all art bereaved:</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Since the world will—why let it be deceived.</span><br />
[<i>Exeunt.</i><br />
</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_328" id="Page_328">[Pg 328]</a></span></p>




<h3>ACT THE FOURTH.</h3>


<h4>SCENE I.—<span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.'s</span> <i>Lodgings.</i><a name="FNanchor_133_133" id="FNanchor_133_133"></a><a href="#Footnote_133_133" class="fnanchor">[133]</a></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.</span>, <i>with a letter in his hand; followed by</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Upon my life, sir, I know nothing
of the matter. I never opened my
lips to Mr. Myrtle about anything of
your honour's letter to Madam Lucinda.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> What's the fool in such a fright
for? I don't suppose you did. What
I would know is, whether Mr. Myrtle
shows any suspicion, or asked you any questions, to lead
you to say casually that you had carried any such letter
for me this morning.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Why, sir, if he did ask me any questions, how
could I help it?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> I don't say you could, oaf! I am not questioning
you, but him. What did he say to you?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Why, sir, when I came to his chambers, to be
dressed for the lawyer's part your honour was pleased to
put me upon, he asked me if I had been at Mr. Sealand's
this morning? So I told him, sir, I often went
thither—because, sir, if I had not said that he might
have thought there was something more in my going now
than at another time.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Very well!—The fellow's caution, I find, has
given him this jealousy. [<i>Aside.</i>]—Did he ask you no
other questions?</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_329" id="Page_329">[Pg 329]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Yes, sir; now I remember, as we came away in
the hackney coach from Mr. Sealand's, Tom, says he, as
I came in to your master this morning, he bade you go for
an answer to a letter he had sent. Pray did you bring
him any? says he. Ah! says I, sir, your honour is
pleased to joke with me; you have a mind to know
whether I can keep a secret or no?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> And so, by showing him you could, you told him
you had one?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir——[<i>Confused.</i></p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> What mean actions does jealousy make a man
stoop to! How poorly has he used art with a servant to
make him betray his master!—Well! and when did he
give you this letter for me?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir, he writ it before he pulled off his lawyer's
gown, at his own chambers.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Very well; and what did he say when you
brought him my answer to it?</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> He looked a little out of humour, sir, and said
it was very well.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> I knew he would be grave upon't; wait without.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Hum! 'gad, I don't like this; I am afraid we
are all in the wrong box here. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> I put on a serenity while my fellow was present;
but I have never been more thoroughly disturbed. This
hot man! to write me a challenge, on supposed artificial
dealing, when I professed myself his friend! I can live
contented without glory; but I cannot suffer shame.
What's to be done? But first let me consider Lucinda's
letter again. [<i>Reads.</i></p>

<blockquote>

<p>"<span class="smcap">Sir</span>,</p>

<p>"I hope it is consistent with the laws a woman
ought to impose upon herself, to acknowledge that your
manner of declining a treaty of marriage in our family,
and desiring the refusal may come from me, has something<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_330" id="Page_330">[Pg 330]</a></span>
more engaging in it than the courtship of him who,
I fear, will fall to my lot, except your friend exerts himself
for our common safety and happiness. I have
reasons for desiring Mr. Myrtle may not know of this
letter till hereafter, and am your most obliged humble
servant,</p>

<p>"<span class="smcap">Lucinda Sealand</span>."</p></blockquote>

<p>Well, but the postscript—[<i>Reads.</i></p>

<blockquote>

<p>"I won't, upon second thoughts, hide anything from
you. But my reason for concealing this is, that Mr.
Myrtle has a jealousy in his temper which gives me some
terrors; but my esteem for him inclines me to hope that
only an ill effect which sometimes accompanies a tender
love, and what may be cured by a careful and unblameable
conduct."</p></blockquote>

<p>Thus has this lady made me her friend and confident,
and put herself, in a kind, under my protection. I cannot
tell him immediately the purport of her letter, except
I could cure him of the violent and untractable passion
of jealousy, and so serve him, and her, by disobeying her,
in the article of secrecy, more than I should by complying
with her directions.—But then this duelling, which
custom has imposed upon every man who would live with
reputation and honour in the world—how must I preserve
myself from imputations there? He'll, forsooth,
call it or think it fear, if I explain without fighting.—But
his letter—I'll read it again—</p>

<blockquote>

<p>"<span class="smcap">Sir</span>,</p>

<p>"You have used me basely in corresponding and
carrying on a treaty where you told me you were
indifferent. I have changed my sword since I saw you;
which advertisement I thought proper to send you against
the next meeting between you and the injured</p>

<p>"<span class="smcap">Charles Myrtle</span>."</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_331" id="Page_331">[Pg 331]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Mr. Myrtle, sir. Would your honour please to
see him?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Why, you stupid creature! Let Mr. Myrtle wait
at my lodgings! Show him up. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.] Well!
I am resolved upon my carriage to him. He is in love,
and in every circumstance of life a little distrustful, which
I must allow for—but here he is.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>, <i>introducing</i> <span class="smcap">Myrtle</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p>Sir, I am extremely obliged to you for this honour.—[<i>To</i>
<span class="smcap">Tom</span>.] But, sir, you, with your very discerning face,
leave the room. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.]—Well, Mr. Myrtle, your
commands with me?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> The time, the place, our long acquaintance,
and many other circumstances which affect me on this
occasion, oblige me, without farther ceremony or conference,
to desire you would not only, as you already have,
acknowledge the receipt of my letter, but also comply
with the request in it. I must have farther notice taken
of my message than these half lines—"I have yours,"
"I shall be at home."</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Sir, I own I have received a letter from you in
a very unusual style; but as I design everything in this
matter shall be your own action, your own seeking, I
shall understand nothing but what you are pleased to
confirm face to face, and I have already forgot the
contents of your epistle.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> This cool manner is very agreeable to the abuse
you have already made of my simplicity and frankness;
and I see your moderation tends to your own advantage
and not mine—to your own safety, not consideration of
your friend.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> My own safety, Mr. Myrtle?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Your own safety, Mr. Bevil.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Look you, Mr. Myrtle, there's no disguising that<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_332" id="Page_332">[Pg 332]</a></span>
I understand what you would be at; but, sir, you know
I have often dared to disapprove of the decisions a
tyrant custom has introduced, to the breach of all laws,
both divine and human.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Mr. Bevil, Mr. Bevil, it would be a good first
principle, in those who have so tender a conscience that
way, to have as much abhorrence of doing injuries,
as——</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> As what?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> As fear of answering for 'em.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> As fear of answering for 'em! But that apprehension
is just or blameable according to the object of
that fear. I have often told you, in confidence of heart,
I abhorred the daring to offend the Author of life, and
rushing into his presence—I say, by the very same act,
to commit the crime against Him, and immediately to
urge on to His tribunal.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Mr. Bevil, I must tell you, this coolness, this
gravity, this show of conscience, shall never cheat me of
my mistress. You have, indeed, the best excuse for
life, the hopes of possessing Lucinda. But consider, sir,
I have as much reason to be weary of it, if I am to lose
her; and my first attempt to recover her shall be to let
her see the dauntless man who is to be her guardian and
protector.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Sir, show me but the least glimpse of argument,
that I am authorised, by my own hand, to vindicate any
lawless insult of this nature, and I will show thee—to
chastise thee hardly deserves the name of courage—slight,
inconsiderate man!—There is, Mr. Myrtle, no
such terror in quick anger; and you shall, you know not
why, be cool, as you have, you know not why, been
warm.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Is the woman one loves so little an occasion of
anger? You perhaps, who know not what it is to love,
who have your ready, your commodious, your foreign<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_333" id="Page_333">[Pg 333]</a></span>
trinket, for your loose hours; and from your fortune,
your specious outward carriage, and other lucky circumstances,
as easy a way to the possession of a woman of
honour; you know nothing of what it is to be alarmed,
to be distracted with anxiety and terror of losing more
than life. Your marriage, happy man, goes on like
common business, and in the interim you have your
rambling captive, your Indian princess, for your soft
moments of dalliance, your convenient, your ready
Indiana.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> You have touched me beyond the patience of a
man; and I'm excusable, in the guard of innocence (or
from the infirmity of human nature, which can bear no
more), to accept your invitation, and observe your letter—Sir,
I'll attend you.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Did you call, sir? I thought you did; I heard
you speak aloud.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Yes; go call a coach.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Sir—master—Mr. Myrtle—friends—gentlemen—what
d'ye mean? I am but a servant, or——</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Call a coach. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.]—[<i>A long pause,
walking sullenly by each other.</i>]—[<i>Aside.</i>] Shall I (though
provoked to the uttermost) recover myself at the entrance
of a third person, and that my servant too, and
not have respect enough to all I have ever been receiving
from infancy, the obligation to the best of fathers, to
an unhappy virgin too, whose life depends on mine?
[<i>Shutting the door.</i>]—[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Myrtle</span>.] I have, thank
Heaven, had time to recollect myself, and shall not, for
fear of what such a rash man as you think of me, keep
longer unexplained the false appearances under which
your infirmity of temper makes you suffer; when perhaps
too much regard to a false point of honour makes
me prolong that suffering.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_334" id="Page_334">[Pg 334]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> I am sure Mr. Bevil cannot doubt but I had
rather have satisfaction from his innocence than his
sword.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Why, then, would you ask it first that way?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Consider, you kept your temper yourself no
longer than till I spoke to the disadvantage of her you
loved.</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> True; but let me tell you, I have saved you
from the most exquisite distress, even though you had
succeeded in the dispute. I know you so well, that I
am sure to have found this letter about a man you had
killed would have been worse than death to yourself—Read
it.—[<i>Aside.</i>] When he is thoroughly mortified, and
shame has got the better of jealousy, when he has seen
himself throughly, he will deserve to be assisted towards
obtaining Lucinda.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> With what a superiority has he turned the
injury on me, as the aggressor? I begin to fear I have
been too far transported—A treaty in our family! is not
that saying too much? I shall relapse.—But I find (on
the postscript) something like jealousy. With what face
can I see my benefactor, my advocate, whom I have
treated like a betrayer? [<i>Aside.</i>]—Oh! Bevil, with what
words shall I——</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> There needs none; to convince is much more
than to conquer.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> But can you——</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> You have o'erpaid the inquietude you gave me,
in the change I see in you towards me. Alas! what
machines are we! thy face is altered to that of another
man; to that of my companion, my friend.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> That I could be such a precipitant wretch!</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Pray, no more.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Let me reflect how many friends have died, by
the hands of friends, for want of temper; and you must
give me leave to say again, and again, how much I am<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_335" id="Page_335">[Pg 335]</a></span>
beholden to that superior spirit you have subdued me
with. What had become of one of us, or perhaps both,
had you been as weak as I was, and as incapable of
reason?</p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> I congratulate to us both the escape from ourselves,
and hope the memory of it will make us dearer
friends than ever.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Dear Bevil, your friendly conduct has convinced
me that there is nothing manly but what is
conducted by reason, and agreeable to the practice of
virtue and justice. And yet how many have been sacrificed
to that idol, the unreasonable opinion of men!
Nay, they are so ridiculous in it, that they often use
their swords against each other with dissembled anger
and real fear.</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Betrayed by honour, and compelled by shame,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">They hazard being, to preserve a name:</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Nor dare inquire into the dread mistake,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Till plunged in sad eternity they wake. [<i>Exeunt.</i></span><br />
</p>


<h4>SCENE II.—<i>St. James's Park.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John Bevil</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Mr. Sealand</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Give me leave, however, Mr. Sealand, as
we are upon a treaty for uniting our families, to mention
only the business of an ancient house. Genealogy and
descent are to be of some consideration in an affair of
this sort.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Genealogy and descent! Sir, there has
been in our family a very large one. There was Galfrid
the father of Edward, the father of Ptolomey, the father of
Crassus, the father of Earl Richard, the father of Henry
the Marquis, the father of Duke John.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_336" id="Page_336">[Pg 336]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> What, do you rave, Mr. Sealand? all these
great names in your family?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> These? yes, sir. I have heard my father
name 'em all, and more.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Ay, sir? and did he say they were all in
your family?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Yes, sir, he kept 'em all. He was the
greatest cocker<a name="FNanchor_134_134" id="FNanchor_134_134"></a><a href="#Footnote_134_134" class="fnanchor">[134]</a> in England. He said Duke John won
him many battles, and never lost one.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Oh, sir, your servant! you are laughing at
my laying any stress upon descent; but I must tell you,
sir, I never knew anyone but he that wanted that
advantage turn it into ridicule.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> And I never knew any one who had many
better advantages put that into his account.—But, Sir
John, value yourself as you please upon your ancient
house, I am to talk freely of everything you are pleased
to put into your bill of rates on this occasion; yet, sir, I
have made no objections to your son's family. 'Tis his
morals that I doubt.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Sir, I can't help saying, that what might
injure a citizen's credit may be no stain to a gentleman's
honour.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Sir John, the honour of a gentleman is
liable to be tainted by as small a matter as the credit of
a trader. We are talking of a marriage, and in such a
case, the father of a young woman will not think it an
addition to the honour or credit of her lover that he is a
keeper——</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Mr. Sealand, don't take upon you to spoil
my son's marriage with any woman else.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Sir John, let him apply to any woman else,
and have as many mistresses as he pleases.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> My son, sir, is a discreet and sober gentleman.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_337" id="Page_337">[Pg 337]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Sir, I never saw a man that wenched soberly
and discreetly, that ever left it off; the decency observed
in the practice hides, even from the sinner, the iniquity
of it. They pursue it, not that their appetites hurry 'em
away, but, I warrant you, because 'tis their opinion they
may do it.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Were what you suspect a truth—do you
design to keep your daughter a virgin till you find a man
unblemished that way?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Sir, as much a cit as you take me for, I
know the town and the world; and give me leave to
say, that we merchants are a species of gentry that have
grown into the world this last century, and are as
honourable, and almost as useful, as you landed folks,
that have always thought yourselves so much above
us; for your trading, forsooth, is extended no farther
than a load of hay or a fat ox. You are pleasant
people, indeed, because you are generally bred up to
be lazy; therefore, I warrant you, industry is dishonourable.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Be not offended, sir; let us go back to
our point.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Oh! not at all offended; but I don't love
to leave any part of the account unclosed. Look you,
Sir John, comparisons are odious, and more particularly
so on occasions of this kind, when we are projecting
races that are to be made out of both sides of the
comparisons.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> But, my son, sir, is, in the eye of the
world, a gentleman of merit.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I own to you, I think him so.—But, Sir
John, I am a man exercised and experienced in chances
and disasters. I lost, in my earlier years, a very fine
wife, and with her a poor little infant. This makes me,
perhaps, over cautious to preserve the second bounty of
providence to me, and be as careful as I can of this<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_338" id="Page_338">[Pg 338]</a></span>
child. You'll pardon me, my poor girl, sir, is as valuable
to me as your boasted son to you.</p>

<p><i>Sir. J. Bev.</i> Why, that's one very good reason, Mr.
Sealand, why I wish my son had her.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> There is nothing but this strange lady
here, this <i>incognita</i>, that can be objected to him. Here
and there a man falls in love with an artful creature,
and gives up all the motives of life to that one
passion.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> A man of my son's understanding cannot
be supposed to be one of them.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Very wise men have been so enslaved;
and, when a man marries with one of them upon his
hands, whether moved from the demand of the world or
slighter reasons, such a husband soils with his wife for a
month perhaps—then good be w'ye, madam, the show's
over—Ah! John Dryden points out such a husband to a
hair, where he says,—</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">"And while abroad so prodigal the dolt is,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Poor spouse at home as ragged as a colt is."</span><br />
</p>

<p>Now, in plain terms, sir, I shall not care to have my
poor girl turned a-grazing, and that must be the case
when——</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> But pray consider, sir, my son——</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Look you, sir, I'll make the matter short.
This unknown lady, as I told you, is all the objection I
have to him; but, one way or other, he is, or has been,
certainly engaged to her. I am therefore resolved, this
very afternoon, to visit her. Now from her behaviour,
or appearance, I shall soon be let into what I may fear
or hope for.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Sir, I am very confident there can be
nothing inquired into relating to my son, that will not,
upon being understood, turn to his advantage.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I hope that as sincerely as you believe it.—Sir<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_339" id="Page_339">[Pg 339]</a></span>
John Bevil, when I am satisfied, in this great
point, if your son's conduct answers the character you
give him, I shall wish your alliance more than that of
any gentleman in Great Britain; and so your servant.
[<i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> He is gone in a way but barely civil; but
his great wealth, and the merit of his only child, the
heiress of it, are not to be lost for a little peevishness.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Humphry</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p>Oh! Humphry, you are come in a seasonable minute.
I want to talk to thee, and to tell thee that my head and
heart are on the rack about my son.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sir, you may trust his discretion; I am sure
you may.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Why, I do believe I may, and yet I'm in
a thousand fears when I lay this vast wealth before me;
when I consider his prepossessions, either generous to a
folly, in an honourable love, or abandoned, past redemption,
in a vicious one; and, from the one or the other,
his insensibility to the fairest prospect towards doubling
our estate: a father, who knows how useful wealth is,
and how necessary, even to those who despise it—I say a
father, Humphry, a father cannot bear it.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Be not transported, sir; you will grow incapable
of taking any resolution in your perplexity.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Yet, as angry as I am with him, I would
not have him surprised in anything. This mercantile
rough man may go grossly into the examination of this
matter, and talk to the gentlewoman so as to——</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> No, I hope, not in an abrupt manner.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> No, I hope not! Why, dost thou know
anything of her, or of him, or of anything of it, or all
of it?</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> My dear master, I know so much that I told<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_340" id="Page_340">[Pg 340]</a></span>
him this very day you had reason to be secretly out of
humour about her.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Did you go so far? Well, what said he
to that?</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> His words were, looking upon me steadfastly:
"Humphry," says he, "that woman is a woman of
honour."</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> How! Do you think he is married to
her, or designs to marry her?</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I can say nothing to the latter; but he says
he can marry no one without your consent while you are
living.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> If he said so much, I know he scorns to
break his word with me.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I am sure of that.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> You are sure of that—well! that's some
comfort. Then I have nothing to do but to see the
bottom of this matter during this present ruffle—Oh,
Humphry——</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> You are not ill, I hope, sir.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Yes, a man is very ill that's in a very ill-humour.
To be a father is to be in care for one whom
you oftener disoblige than please by that very care—Oh!
that sons could know the duty to a father before they
themselves are fathers—But, perhaps, you'll say now that
I am one of the happiest fathers in the world; but, I
assure you, that of the very happiest is not a condition
to be envied.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> Sir, your pain arises, not from the thing
itself, but your particular sense of it. You are overfond,
nay, give me leave to say, you are unjustly apprehensive
from your fondness. My master Bevil never
disobliged you, and he will, I know he will, do everything
you ought to expect.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> He won't take all this money with this
girl—For ought I know, he will, forsooth, have so much<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_341" id="Page_341">[Pg 341]</a></span>
moderation as to think he ought not to force his liking
for any consideration.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> He is to marry her, not you; he is to live
with her, not you, sir.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> I know not what to think. But, I know,
nothing can be more miserable than to be in this doubt—Follow
me; I must come to some resolution.
[<i>Exeunt.</i></p>


<h4>SCENE III.—<span class="smcap">Bevil, Jun.'s</span> <i>Lodgings.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Well, madam, if you must speak with Mr.
Myrtle, you shall; he is now with my master in the
library.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> But you must leave me alone with him, for he
can't make me a present, nor I so handsomely take
anything from him before you; it would not be decent.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> It will be very decent, indeed, for me to retire,
and leave my mistress with another man.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> He is a gentleman, and will treat one properly.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I believe so; but, however, I won't be far off,
and therefore will venture to trust you. I'll call him to
you. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> What a deal of pother and sputter here is between
my mistress and Mr. Myrtle from mere punctilio!
I could, any hour of the day, get her to her lover, and
would do it—but she, forsooth, will allow no plot to get
him; but, if he can come to her, I know she would be
glad of it. I must, therefore, do her an acceptable violence,
and surprise her into his arms. I am sure I go
by the best rule imaginable. If she were my maid, I
should think her the best servant in the world for doing
so by me.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_342" id="Page_342">[Pg 342]</a></span></p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Myrtle</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p>Oh sir! You and Mr. Bevil are fine gentlemen to let
a lady remain under such difficulties as my poor mistress,
and no attempt to set her at liberty, or release her from
the danger of being instantly married to Cimberton.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Tom has been telling——But what is to be
done?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> What is to be done—when a man can't come at
his mistress! Why, can't you fire our house, or the next
house to us, to make us run out, and you take us?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> How, Mrs. Phillis?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Ay; let me see that rogue deny to fire a house,
make a riot, or any other little thing, when there were
no other way to come at me.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> I am obliged to you, madam.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Why, don't we hear every day of people's hanging
themselves for love, and won't they venture the
hazard of being hanged for love? Oh! were I a
man——</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> What manly thing would you have me undertake,
according to your ladyship's notion of a man?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Only be at once what, one time or other, you
may be, and wish to be, or must be.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Dear girl, talk plainly to me, and consider I,
in my condition, can't be in very good humour—you
say, to be at once what I must be.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Ay, ay; I mean no more than to be an old
man; I saw you do it very well at the masquerade. In
a word, old Sir Geoffry Cimberton is every hour expected
in town, to join in the deeds and settlements
for marrying Mr. Cimberton. He is half blind, half
lame, half deaf, half dumb; though, as to his passions
and desires, he is as warm and ridiculous as when in the
heat of youth.</p>

<p><i>Tom.</i> Come to the business, and don't keep the<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_343" id="Page_343">[Pg 343]</a></span>
gentleman in suspense for the pleasure of being courted,
as you serve me.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I saw you at the masquerade act such a one to
perfection. Go, and put on that very habit, and come
to our house as Sir Geoffry. There is not one there but
myself knows his person; I was born in the parish where
he is Lord of the Manor. I have seen him often and
often at church in the country. Do not hesitate, but
come hither; they will think you bring a certain security
against Mr. Myrtle, and you bring Mr. Myrtle.
Leave the rest to me; I leave this with you, and expect—They
don't, I told you, know you; they think you out
of town, which you had as good be for ever, if you lose
this opportunity—I must be gone; I know I am wanted
at home.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> My dear Phillis! [<i>Catches and kisses her, and
gives her money.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> O fie! my kisses are not my own; you have
committed violence; but I'll carry 'em to the right
owner. [<span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>kisses her.</i>]—Come, see me downstairs [<i>To</i>
<span class="smcap">Tom</span>.], and leave the lover to think of his last game for
the prize. [<i>Exeunt</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> I think I will instantly attempt this wild expedient.
The extravagance of it will make me less suspected,
and it will give me opportunity to assert my own
right to Lucinda, without whom I cannot live. But I am
so mortified at this conduct of mine towards poor Bevil.
He must think meanly of me—I know not how to reassume
myself, and be in spirit enough for such an
adventure as this; yet I must attempt it, if it be only to
be near Lucinda under her present perplexities; and
sure——</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The next delight to transport, with the fair,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Is to relieve her in her hours of care. [<i>Exit.</i></span><br />
</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_344" id="Page_344">[Pg 344]</a></span></p>




<h3>ACT THE FIFTH.</h3>


<h4>SCENE I.—<span class="smcap">Sealand's</span> <i>House.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>, <i>with lights, before</i> <span class="smcap">Myrtle</span>, <i>disguised like
old</i> <span class="smcap">Sir Geoffry</span>; <i>supported by</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Sealand,
Lucinda</span>, <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Cimberton</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Now I have seen you
thus far, Sir Geoffry, will you excuse
me a moment while I give my
necessary orders for your accommodation?
[<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Seal.</span></p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> I have not seen you,
cousin Cimberton, since you were
ten years old; and as it is incumbent on you to keep
up our name and family, I shall, upon very reasonable
terms, join with you in a settlement to that purpose.
Though I must tell you, cousin, this is the first merchant
that has married into our house.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Deuce on 'em! am I a merchant because my
father is? [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> But is he directly a trader at this time?</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> There's no hiding the disgrace, sir; he trades
to all parts of the world.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> We never had one of our family before who
descended from persons that did anything.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Sir, since it is a girl that they have, I am, for<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_345" id="Page_345">[Pg 345]</a></span>
the honour of my family, willing to take it in again, and
to sink her into our name, and no harm done.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> 'Tis prudently and generously resolved—Is
this the young thing?</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Yes, sir.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Good madam, don't be out of humour, but let
them run to the utmost of their extravagance.—Hear
them out. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Luc.</span></p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Can't I see her nearer? My eyes are but weak.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Beside, I am sure the uncle has something
worth your notice. I'll take care to get off the young
one, and leave you to observe what may be wrought out
of the old one for your good. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Luc.</span> <i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Madam, this old gentleman, your great uncle,
desires to be introduced to you, and to see you nearer!—Approach,
sir.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> By your leave, young lady. [<i>Puts on spectacles.</i>]—Cousin
Cimberton! She has exactly that
sort of neck and bosom for which my sister Gertrude
was so much admired in the year sixty-one, before the
French dresses first discovered anything in women below
the chin.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> [<i>Aside.</i>] What a very odd situation am I in!
though I cannot but be diverted at the extravagance of
their humours, equally unsuitable to their age—Chin,
quotha—I don't believe my passionate lover there knows
whether I have one or not. Ha! ha!</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Madam, I would not willingly offend, but I
have a better glass. [<i>Pulls out a large one.</i></p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Phil.</i> [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Cimberton</span>.] Sir, my lady desires to show
the apartment to you that she intends for Sir Geoffry.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Well, sir! by that time you will have sufficiently
gazed and sunned yourself in the beauties of my spouse
there.—I will wait on you again. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Cimb.</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Phil.<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_346" id="Page_346">[Pg 346]</a></span></span></p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Were it not, madam, that I might be troublesome,
there is something of importance, though we are
alone, which I would say more safe from being heard.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> There is something in this old fellow, methinks,
that raises my curiosity. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> To be free, madam, I as heartily contemn this
kinsman of mine as you do, and am sorry to see so much
beauty and merit devoted by your parents to so insensible
a possessor.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Surprising!—I hope, then, sir, you will not contribute
to the wrong you are so generous as to pity,
whatever may be the interest of your family.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> This hand of mine shall never be employed to
sign anything against your good and happiness.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> I am sorry, sir, it is not in my power to make
you proper acknowledgments; but there is a gentleman
in the world whose gratitude will, I am sure, be worthy
of the favour.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> All the thanks I desire, madam, are in your
power to give.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Name them and command them.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Only, madam, that the first time you are alone
with your lover, you will, with open arms, receive him.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> As willingly as his heart could wish it.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Thus, then, he claims your promise. O
Lucinda!</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Oh! a cheat! a cheat! a cheat!</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Hush! 'tis I, 'tis I, your lover, Myrtle himself,
madam.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> O bless me! what a rashness and folly to surprise
me so—But hush—my mother.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Sealand, Cimberton</span>, <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Phillis</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> How now! what's the matter?</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> O madam! as soon as you left the room my<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_347" id="Page_347">[Pg 347]</a></span>
uncle fell into a sudden fit, and—and—so I cried out
for help to support him and conduct him to his chamber.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> That was kindly done! Alas! sir, how
do you find yourself?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Never was taken in so odd a way in my life—pray
lead me! Oh! I was talking here—(pray carry me)—to
my cousin Cimberton's young lady.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> [<i>Aside.</i>] My cousin Cimberton's young
lady! How zealous he is, even in his extremity, for the
match! A right Cimberton.
[<span class="smcap">Cimberton</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span> <i>lead him, as one in pain.</i></p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> Pox! Uncle, you will pull my ear off.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Pray, uncle! you will squeeze me to death.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> No matter, no matter—he knows not what
he does.—Come, sir, shall I help you out?</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> By no means! I'll trouble nobody but my
young cousins here. [<i>They lead him off.</i></p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> But pray, madam, does your ladyship intend
that Mr. Cimberton shall really marry my young mistress
at last? I don't think he likes her.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> That's not material! Men of his speculation
are above desires—but be as it may. Now I have
given old Sir Geoffry the trouble of coming up to sign
and seal, with what countenance can I be off?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> As well as with twenty others, madam. It is
the glory and honour of a great fortune to live in continual
treaties, and still to break off: it looks great,
madam.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> True, Phillis—yet to return our blood
again into the Cimbertons is an honour not to be rejected—But
were not you saying that Sir John Bevil's
creature, Humphry, has been with Mr. Sealand?</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Yes, madam; I overheard them agree that Mr.
Sealand should go himself and visit this unknown lady
that Mr. Bevil is so great with; and if he found nothing<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_348" id="Page_348">[Pg 348]</a></span>
there to fright him, that Mr. Bevil should still marry my
young mistress.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> How! nay, then, he shall find she is my
daughter as well as his. I'll follow him this instant, and
take the whole family along with me. The disputed
power of disposing of my own daughter shall be at an
end this very night. I'll live no longer in anxiety for a
little hussy that hurts my appearance wherever I carry
her: and for whose sake I seem to be at all regarded,
and that in the best of my days.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> Indeed, madam, if she were married, your ladyship
might very well be taken for Mr. Sealand's daughter.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Nay, when the chit has not been with me,
I have heard the men say as much. I'll no longer cut
off the greatest pleasure of a woman's life (the shining in
assemblies) by her forward anticipation of the respect
that's due to her superior. She shall down to Cimberton-Hall—she
shall—she shall.</p>

<p><i>Phil.</i> I hope, madam, I shall stay with your ladyship.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Thou shalt, Phillis, and I'll place thee then
more about me—But order chairs immediately; I'll be
gone this minute. [<i>Exeunt.</i></p>


<h4>SCENE II.—<i>Charing Cross.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Mr. Sealand</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Humphry</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I am very glad, Mr. Humphry, that you
agree with me that it is for our common good I should
look thoroughly into this matter.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> I am, indeed, of that opinion; for there is no
artifice, nothing concealed, in our family, which ought in
justice to be known. I need not desire you, sir, to treat
the lady with care and respect.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_349" id="Page_349">[Pg 349]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Master Humphry, I shall not be rude,
though I design to be a little abrupt, and come into the
matter at once, to see how she will bear upon a surprise.</p>

<p><i>Humph.</i> That's the door, sir; I wish you success.—[<i>While</i>
<span class="smcap">Humphry</span> <i>speaks,</i> <span class="smcap">Sealand</span> <i>consults his table
book.</i>]—I am less concerned what happens there, because
I hear Mr. Myrtle is well lodged as old Sir Geoffry; so
I am willing to let this gentleman employ himself here,
to give them time at home; for I am sure 'tis necessary
for the quiet of our family Lucinda were disposed of out
of it, since Mr. Bevil's inclination is so much otherwise
engaged. [<i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I think this is the door. [<i>Knocks.</i>] I'll carry
this matter with an air of authority, to inquire, though I
make an errand, to begin discourse. [<i>Knocks again, and
enter a foot-boy.</i>] So young man! is your lady within?</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Alack, sir! I am but a country boy—I dant
know whether she is or noa; but an you'll stay a bit, I'll
goa and ask the gentlewoman that's with her.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Why, sirrah, though you are a country boy,
you can see, can't you? You know whether she is at
home, when you see her, don't you?</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Nay, nay, I'm not such a country lad neither,
master, to think she's at home because I see her. I
have been in town but a month, and I lost one place
already for believing my own eyes.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Why, sirrah! have you learnt to lie already?</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Ah, master! things that are lies in the country
are not lies at London. I begin to know my business a
little better than so—But an you please to walk in, I'll
call a gentlewoman to you that can tell you for certain—she
can make bold to ask my lady herself.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Oh! then, she is within, I find, though you
dare not say so.</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Nay, nay! that's neither here nor there: what's<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_350" id="Page_350">[Pg 350]</a></span>
matter whether she is within or no, if she has not a mind
to see anybody?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I can't tell, sirrah, whether you are arch or
simple; but, however, get me a direct answer, and here's
a shilling for you.</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Will you please to walk in; I'll see what I can
do for you.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I see you will be fit for your business in
time, child; but I expect to meet with nothing but
extraordinaries in such a house.</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Such a house! Sir, you han't seen it yet. Pray
walk in.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Sir, I'll wait upon you. [<i>Exeunt.</i></p>


<h4>SCENE III.—<span class="smcap">Indiana's</span> <i>House.</i></h4>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Isabella</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Isab.</i> What anxiety do I feel for this poor creature!
What will be the end of her? Such a languishing unreserved
passion for a man that at last must certainly leave
or ruin her! and perhaps both! Then the aggravation
of the distress is, that she does not believe he will—not
but, I must own, if they are both what they would seem,
they are made for one another, as much as Adam and
Eve were, for there is no other of their kind but themselves.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Boy</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p>So, Daniel! what news with you?</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Madam, there's a gentleman below would speak
with my lady.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Sirrah! don't you know Mr. Bevil yet?</p>

<p><i>Boy.</i> Madam, 'tis not the gentleman who comes every
day, and asks for you, and won't go in till he knows
whether you are with her or no.</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_351" id="Page_351">[Pg 351]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Ha! that's a particular I did not know before.
Well! be it who it will, let him come up to me.</p>

<blockquote>

<p>[<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Boy</span>; <i>and re-enters with</i> <span class="smcap">Mr. Sealand</span>;
<span class="smcap">Isabella</span> <i>looks amazed.</i></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Madam, I can't blame your being a little
surprised to see a perfect stranger make a visit, and——</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> I am indeed surprised!—I see he does not
know me. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> You are very prettily lodged here, madam;
in troth you seem to have everything in plenty—A thousand
a year, I warrant you, upon this pretty nest of
rooms, and the dainty one within them.
[<i>Aside, and looking about.</i></p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> [<i>Apart.</i>] Twenty years, it seems, have less effect
in the alteration of a man of thirty than of a girl of fourteen—he's
almost still the same; but alas! I find, by
other men, as well as himself, I am not what I was. As
soon as he spoke, I was convinced 'twas he; how shall
I contain my surprise and satisfaction! He must not
know me yet.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Madam, I hope I don't give you any disturbance;
but there is a young lady here with whom I
have a particular business to discourse, and I hope she
will admit me to that favour.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Why, sir, have you had any notice concerning
her? I wonder who could give it you.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> That, madam, is fit only to be communicated
to herself.</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Well, sir! you shall see her.—[<i>Aside.</i>] I find he
knows nothing yet, nor shall from me. I am resolved I
will observe this interlude, this sport of nature and of
fortune.—You shall see her presently, sir; for now I am
as a mother, and will trust her with you. [<i>Exit.</i></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> As a mother! right; that's the old phrase
for one of those commode ladies, who lend out beauty
for hire to young gentlemen that have pressing occasions.<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_352" id="Page_352">[Pg 352]</a></span>
But here comes the precious lady herself. In troth a
very sightly woman——</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Ind.</i> I am told, sir, you have some affair that requires
your speaking with me.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Yes, madam, there came to my hands a bill
drawn by Mr. Bevil, which is payable to-morrow; and
he, in the intercourse of business, sent it to me, who
have cash of his, and desired me to send a servant with
it; but I have made bold to bring you the money
myself.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Sir! was that necessary?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> No, madam; but to be free with you, the
fame of your beauty, and the regard which Mr. Bevil is
a little too well known to have for you, excited my
curiosity.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Too well known to have for me! Your sober
appearance, sir, which my friend described, made me
expect no rudeness, or absurdity, at least——Who's
there?—Sir, if you pay the money to a servant, 'twill be
as well.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Pray, madam, be not offended; I came
hither on an innocent, nay, a virtuous design; and, if
you will have patience to hear me, it may be as useful
to you, as you are in a friendship with Mr. Bevil, as to
my only daughter, whom I was this day disposing of.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> You make me hope, sir, I have mistaken you. I
am composed again; be free, say on—[<i>Aside.</i>]—what I
am afraid to hear.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I feared, indeed, an unwarranted passion
here, but I did not think it was in abuse of so worthy an
object, so accomplished a lady as your sense and mien
bespeak; but the youth of our age care not what merit
and virtue they bring to shame, so they gratify——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Sir, you are going into very great errors; but as<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_353" id="Page_353">[Pg 353]</a></span>
you are pleased to say you see something in me that has
changed at least the colour of your suspicions, so has your
appearance altered mine, and made me earnestly attentive
to what has any way concerned you to inquire into
my affairs and character.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> How sensibly, with what an air she talks!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Good sir, be seated, and tell me tenderly; keep
all your suspicions concerning me alive, that you may in
a proper and prepared way acquaint me why the care of
your daughter obliges a person of your seeming worth
and fortune to be thus inquisitive about a wretched, helpless,
friendless——[<i>Weeping.</i>] But I beg your pardon;
though I am an orphan, your child is not; and your concern
for her, it seems, has brought you hither.—I'll be
composed; pray go on, sir.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> How could Mr. Bevil be such a monster, to
injure such a woman?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No, sir, you wrong him; he has not injured me.
My support is from his bounty.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Bounty! when gluttons give high prices for
delicates, they are prodigious bountiful.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Still, still you will persist in that error. But my
own fears tell me all. You are the gentleman, I suppose,
for whose happy daughter he is designed a husband by
his good father, and he has, perhaps, consented to the
overture. He was here this morning, dressed beyond
his usual plainness—nay, most sumptuously—and he is
to be, perhaps, this night a bridegroom.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> I own he was intended such; but, madam,
on your account, I have determined to defer my
daughter's marriage till I am satisfied from your own
mouth of what nature are the obligations you are under to
him.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> His actions, sir; his eyes have only made me
think he designed to make me the partner of his heart.
The goodness and gentleness of his demeanour made me<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_354" id="Page_354">[Pg 354]</a></span>
misinterpret all. 'Twas my own hope, my own passion,
that deluded me; he never made one amorous advance
to me. His large heart, and bestowing hand, have only
helped the miserable; nor know I why, but from his
mere delight in virtue, that I have been his care and
the object on which to indulge and please himself with
pouring favours.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Madam, I know not why it is, but I, as well
as you, am methinks afraid of entering into the matter I
came about; but 'tis the same thing as if we had talked
never so distinctly——he ne'er shall have a daughter of
mine.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> If you say this from what you think of me, you
wrong yourself and him. Let not me, miserable though
I may be, do injury to my benefactor. No, sir, my treatment
ought rather to reconcile you to his virtues. If to
bestow without a prospect of return; if to delight in supporting
what might, perhaps, be thought an object of
desire, with no other view than to be her guard against
those who would not be so disinterested; if these actions,
sir, can in a careful parent's eye commend him to a
daughter, give yours, sir, give her to my honest, generous
Bevil. What have I to do but sigh, and weep, and rave,
run wild, a lunatic in chains, or, hid in darkness, mutter
in distracted starts and broken accents my strange,
strange story!</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Take comfort, madam.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> All my comfort must be to expostulate in madness,
to relieve with frenzy my despair, and shrieking to
demand of fate why—why was I born to such variety of
sorrows.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> If I have been the least occasion——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> No, 'twas Heaven's high will I should be such; to
be plundered in my cradle! tossed on the seas! and even
there an infant captive! to lose my mother, hear but of<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_355" id="Page_355">[Pg 355]</a></span>
my father! to be adopted! lose my adopter! then
plunged again into worse calamities!</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> An infant captive!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Yet then, to find the most charming of mankind,
once more to set me free from what I thought
the last distress, to load me with his services, his bounties,
and his favours; to support my very life in a way that
stole, at the same time, my very soul itself from me.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> And has young Bevil been this worthy
man?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Yet then, again, this very man to take another!
without leaving me the right, the pretence of easing my
fond heart with tears! For, oh! I can't reproach him,
though the same hand that raised me to this height now
throws me down the precipice.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Dear lady! Oh, yet one moment's patience:
my heart grows full with your affliction.—But yet there's
something in your story that——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> My portion here is bitterness and sorrow.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Do not think so. Pray answer me: does
Bevil know your name and family?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Alas! too well! Oh, could I be any other thing
than what I am——I'll tear away all traces of my former
self, my little ornaments, the remains of my first state,
the hints of what I ought to have been——</p>

<blockquote>

<p>[<i>In her disorder she throws away a bracelet, which</i>
<span class="smcap">Sealand</span> <i>takes up, and looks earnestly on it.</i></p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Ha! what's this? My eyes are not deceived!
It is, it is the same! the very bracelet which I
bequeathed to my wife at our last mournful parting.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> What said you, sir? Your wife? Whither does
my fancy carry me? What means this unfelt motion at
my heart? And yet, again my fortune but deludes me;
for if I err not, sir, your name is Sealand; but my lost
father's name was——</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_356" id="Page_356">[Pg 356]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Danvers; was it not?</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> What new amazement? That is, indeed, my
family.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Know, then, when my misfortunes drove me
to the Indies, for reasons too tedious now to mention, I
changed my name of Danvers into Sealand.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Isabella</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Isab.</i> If yet there wants an explanation of your wonder,
examine well this face (yours, sir, I well remember),
gaze on and read in me your sister, Isabella.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> My sister!</p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> But here's a claim more tender yet——your
Indiana, sir, your long-lost daughter.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Oh, my child! my child!</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> All gracious Heaven! is it possible! do I embrace
my father?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> And I do hold thee.—These passions are too
strong for utterance. Rise, rise, my child, and give my
tears their way.—Oh, my sister! [<i>Embracing her.</i></p>

<p><i>Isab.</i> Now, dearest niece, my groundless fears, my
painful cares no more shall vex thee. If I have wronged
thy noble lover with too much suspicion, my just concern
for thee, I hope, will plead my pardon.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Oh! make him, then, the full amends, and
be yourself the messenger of joy. Fly this instant! tell
him all these wondrous turns of Providence in his favour!
Tell him I have now a daughter to bestow which he no
longer will decline; that this day he still shall be a bridegroom;
nor shall a fortune, the merit which his father
seeks, be wanting. Tell him the reward of all his virtues
waits on his acceptance. [<i>Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Isab.</span>] My dearest
Indiana! [<i>Turns and embraces her.</i></p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Have I, then, at last, a father's sanction on my
love? His bounteous hand to give, and make my heart
a present worthy of Bevil's generosity?</p>

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_357" id="Page_357">[Pg 357]</a></span></p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Oh, my child! how are our sorrows past
o'erpaid by such a meeting! Though I have lost so
many years of soft paternal dalliance with thee, yet, in one
day to find thee thus, and thus bestow thee, in such perfect
happiness, is ample, ample reparation!—And yet,
again, the merit of thy lover——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Oh! had I spirits left to tell you of his actions!
how strongly filial duty has suppressed his love; and how
concealment still has doubled all his obligations; the
pride, the joy of his alliance, sir, would warm your heart,
as he has conquered mine.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> How laudable is love when born of virtue!
I burn to embrace him——</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> See, sir, my aunt already has succeeded, and
brought him to your wishes.</p>

<blockquote>

<p><i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Isabella</span>, <i>with</i> <span class="smcap">Sir John Bevil, Bevil, Jun.,
Mrs. Sealand, Cimberton, Myrtle</span>, <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> [<i>Entering.</i>] Where, where's this scene of
wonder? Mr. Sealand, I congratulate, on this occasion,
our mutual happiness——Your good sister, sir, has, with
the story of your daughter's fortune, filled us with surprise
and joy. Now all exceptions are removed; my son has
now avowed his love, and turned all former jealousies
and doubts to approbation; and, I am told, your goodness
has consented to reward him.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> If, sir, a fortune equal to his father's hopes
can make this object worthy his acceptance.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> I hear your mention, sir, of fortune, with pleasure
only as it may prove the means to reconcile the best
of fathers to my love. Let him be provident, but let me
be happy.—My ever-destined, my acknowledged wife!
[<i>Embracing</i> <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.</p>

<p><i>Ind.</i> Wife! Oh, my ever loved! My lord! my master!</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> I congratulate myself, as well as you, that<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_358" id="Page_358">[Pg 358]</a></span>
I had a son who could, under such disadvantages, discover
your great merit.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Oh, Sir John! how vain, how weak is human
prudence! What care, what foresight, what imagination
could contrive such blest events, to make our children
happy, as Providence in one short hour has laid before
us?</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Sealand</span>.] I am afraid, madam, Mr.
Sealand is a little too busy for our affair. If you please,
we'll take another opportunity.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Let us have patience, sir.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> But we make Sir Geoffry wait, madam.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> O, sir, I am not in haste.</p>

<blockquote>

<p>[<i>During this,</i> <span class="smcap">Bev., Jun.</span>, <i>presents</i> <span class="smcap">Lucinda</span> <i>to</i> <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.</p></blockquote>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> But here! here's our general benefactor!
Excellent young man, that could be at once a lover to
her beauty and a parent to her virtue.</p>

<p><i>Bev. Jun.</i> If you think that an obligation, sir, give me
leave to overpay myself, in the only instance that can
now add to my felicity, by begging you to bestow this
lady on Mr. Myrtle.</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> She is his without reserve; I beg he may
be sent for. Mr. Cimberton, notwithstanding you never
had my consent, yet there is, since I last saw you, another
objection to your marriage with my daughter.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> I hope, sir, your lady has concealed nothing
from me?</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> Troth, sir, nothing but what was concealed
from myself—another daughter, who has an undoubted
title to half my estate.</p>

<p><i>Cimb.</i> How, Mr. Sealand? Why, then, if half Mrs.
Lucinda's fortune is gone, you can't say that any of my
estate is settled upon her. I was in treaty for the whole;
but if that is not to be come at, to be sure there can be
no bargain. Sir, I have nothing to do but take my<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_359" id="Page_359">[Pg 359]</a></span>
leave of your good lady, my cousin, and beg pardon for
the trouble I have given this old gentleman.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> That you have, Mr. Cimberton, with all my
heart. [<i>Discovers himself.</i></p>

<p><i>All.</i> Mr. Myrtle!</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> And I beg pardon of the whole company that I
assumed the person of Sir Geoffry, only to be present
at the danger of this lady being disposed of, and in her
utmost exigence to assert my right to her; which, if her
parents will ratify, as they once favoured my pretensions,
no abatement of fortune shall lessen her value to me.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Generous man!</p>

<p><i>Mr. Seal.</i> If, sir, you can overlook the injury of being
in treaty with one who has meanly left her, as you have
generously asserted your right in her, she is yours.</p>

<p><i>Luc.</i> Mr. Myrtle, though you have ever had my
heart, yet now I find I love you more, because I bring
you less.</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> We have much more than we want; and I am
glad any event has contributed to the discovery of our
real inclinations to each other.</p>

<p><i>Mrs. Seal.</i> Well! however, I'm glad the girl's disposed
of, anyway. [<i>Aside.</i></p>

<p><i>Bev.</i> Myrtle, no longer rivals now, but brothers!</p>

<p><i>Myrt.</i> Dear Bevil, you are born to triumph over me!
but now our competition ceases; I rejoice in the pre-eminence
of your virtue, and your alliance adds charms
to Lucinda.</p>

<p><i>Sir J. Bev.</i> Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have set
the world a fair example: your happiness is owing to
your constancy and merit; and the several difficulties
you have struggled with evidently show—</p>

<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Whate'er the generous mind itself denies,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The secret care of Providence supplies.</span><br />
[<i>Exeunt.</i><br />
</p>

<hr class="chap" />

<p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_360" id="Page_360">[Pg 360]</a></span></p>




<h3>EPILOGUE.</h3>

<p>By <span class="smcap">Mr. Welsted</span>.</p>

<p><i>Intended to be spoken by</i> <span class="smcap">Indiana</span>.</p>


<p>
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Our author, whom entreaties cannot move,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Spite of the dear coquetry that you love,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Swears he'll not frustrate (so he plainly means)</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">By a loose Epilogue, his decent scenes.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Is it not, sirs, hard fate I meet to-day,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">To keep me rigid still beyond the play?</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And yet I'm saved a world of pains that way.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">I now can look, I now can move at ease,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Nor need I torture these poor limbs to please;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Nor with the hand or foot attempt surprise,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Nor wrest my features, nor fatigue my eyes:</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Bless me! what freakish gambols have I played!</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">What motions tried, and wanton looks betrayed!</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Out of pure kindness all! to over-rule</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The threatened hiss, and screen some scribbling fool.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">With more respect I'm entertained to-night:</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Our author thinks I can with ease delight.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">My artless looks while modest graces arm,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">He says, I need but to appear, and charm.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">A wife so formed, by these examples bred,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Pours joy and gladness round the marriage bed;</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">Soft source of comfort, kind relief from care,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">And 'tis her least perfection to be fair.</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">The nymph with Indiana's worth who vies,</span><br />
<span style="margin-left: 2em;">A nation will behold with Bevil's eyes.</span><br />
</p>


<h2><a name="NOTES" id="NOTES">NOTES.</a></h2>

<p><a name="Footnote_103_103" id="Footnote_103_103"></a><a href="#FNanchor_103_103"><span class="label">[103]</span></a> The kind of narrative which is presented on the stage ought to be
marked by gaiety of dialogue, diversity of character, seriousness, tenderness,
hope, fear, suspicion, desire, pity, variety of events, changes of fortune, unexpected
disaster, sudden joy, and a happy ending.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_104_104" id="Footnote_104_104"></a><a href="#FNanchor_104_104"><span class="label">[104]</span></a> The original MS. of this Preface is among the papers at
Blenheim, where there are also some rough notes for a Preface,
<i>e. g.</i>, "The fourth act was the business of the play. The case of
duelling. I have fought, nor shall I ever fight again.... Addison
told me I had a faculty of drawing tears.... Be that as it will, I
shall endeavour to do what I cm to promote noble things, which I
will do as well as I can."</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_105_105" id="Footnote_105_105"></a><a href="#FNanchor_105_105"><span class="label">[105]</span></a> "The stupid and diabolical custom of duelling" (MS. erased).</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_106_106" id="Footnote_106_106"></a><a href="#FNanchor_106_106"><span class="label">[106]</span></a> The Hon. Brigadier-General Charles Churchill, who lived with
Mrs. Oldfield after Maynwaring's death (Egerton's <i>Memoirs of
Mrs. Anne Oldfield</i>, 1731, pp. 67, 121).</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_107_107" id="Footnote_107_107"></a><a href="#FNanchor_107_107"><span class="label">[107]</span></a> "To enquire what should not which does please." (MS.)</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_108_108" id="Footnote_108_108"></a><a href="#FNanchor_108_108"><span class="label">[108]</span></a> Carbonelli, a violinist, who had then not long been in England,
had a benefit in 1722 at Drury Lane Theatre. He published twelve
solos, dedicated to the Duke of Rutland. Afterwards he became
a wine-merchant.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_109_109" id="Footnote_109_109"></a><a href="#FNanchor_109_109"><span class="label">[109]</span></a> "Played admirably well." (MS.)</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_110_110" id="Footnote_110_110"></a><a href="#FNanchor_110_110"><span class="label">[110]</span></a> "Some great critics." (MS.)</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_111_111" id="Footnote_111_111"></a><a href="#FNanchor_111_111"><span class="label">[111]</span></a> Wags in the newspapers of the day pointed out that these
words might be read as meaning that Steele was surprised at
finding to be true anything that Cibber said.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_112_112" id="Footnote_112_112"></a><a href="#FNanchor_112_112"><span class="label">[112]</span></a> "The imitation of Pamphilus." (MS.)</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_113_113" id="Footnote_113_113"></a><a href="#FNanchor_113_113"><span class="label">[113]</span></a> "By him." (MS.)</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_114_114" id="Footnote_114_114"></a><a href="#FNanchor_114_114"><span class="label">[114]</span></a> Leonard Welsted, a protégé of Steele's, wrote also the
Epilogue. He was a clerk in the office of one of the Secretaries of
State, and wrote a play and various poems, some of which were
addressed to Steele. Pope gave him a place in the <i>Dunciad</i>, and
Swift attacked him in his <i>On Poetry: a Rhapsody</i>.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_115_115" id="Footnote_115_115"></a><a href="#FNanchor_115_115"><span class="label">[115]</span></a> Pinkethman.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_116_116" id="Footnote_116_116"></a><a href="#FNanchor_116_116"><span class="label">[116]</span></a> The reference is to Bartholomew Fair, which was held in
Smithfield.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_117_117" id="Footnote_117_117"></a><a href="#FNanchor_117_117"><span class="label">[117]</span></a> Here and throughout this dialogue Steele closely follows the
conversation of Simo and Sosia in Terence's <i>Andria</i>, Act I. scene i.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_118_118" id="Footnote_118_118"></a><a href="#FNanchor_118_118"><span class="label">[118]</span></a> This and the two following speeches by Sir John Bevil are
borrowed from Terence.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_119_119" id="Footnote_119_119"></a><a href="#FNanchor_119_119"><span class="label">[119]</span></a> In the old Royal Palace at Westminster, the House of Lords
was formed out of the ancient Court of Requests, and the old
Painted Chamber separated the Lords from the Commons. Steele
has described (<i>Spectator</i>, No. 88) how servants, waiting for their
masters at an alehouse at Westminster, debated upon public affairs,
addressing each other by their employers' names.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_120_120" id="Footnote_120_120"></a><a href="#FNanchor_120_120"><span class="label">[120]</span></a> At the ridotto there was music, followed by dancing, the company
passing, when the music was over, from the pit to the stage.
Burney says that this Italian entertainment was first introduced
into England in 1722, the year in which Steele produced <i>The
Conscious Lovers</i>.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_121_121" id="Footnote_121_121"></a><a href="#FNanchor_121_121"><span class="label">[121]</span></a> Belsize House was the forerunner of Ranelagh and Vauxhall.
There were gardens, in which refreshments could be obtained, and
hunting, races, &amp;c., were provided to amuse the visitors, for whose
protection twelve stout men, well armed, patrolled the road to
London. A poetical satire, <i>Belsize House</i>, appeared in 1722, the
year of this play. In the same year unlawful gaming at Belsize
was forbidden (Park's <i>Hampstead</i>, 246-9).</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_122_122" id="Footnote_122_122"></a><a href="#FNanchor_122_122"><span class="label">[122]</span></a> Among the Blenheim papers is a fragment, in Steele's writing,
of a dialogue between two servants, Parmeno and Pythias—names
taken, no doubt, from Terence's <i>Eunuchus</i>. The pair discuss the
charm of the soft moments of servants in love, free from their usual
restraints. Why should any man usurp more than his share of the
atmosphere? The whole art of a serving-man is "to be here and
there, and everywhere, unheard and unseen till you are wanted,
and never absent when you are. This gives our masters and
mistresses the free room and scope to do and act as they please—they
are to make all the bustle, all the show—we are like convenient
demons or apparitions about 'em, never to take up space or fill the
air nor be heard of or seen but when commanded." Pythias remarks
how much she learns from Parmeno's conversation, and produces a
little collation from the last night's supper which she has prepared
for him. Parmeno eats the eggs, gorges, sings a song, and says
kind things between whiles to Pythias.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_123_123" id="Footnote_123_123"></a><a href="#FNanchor_123_123"><span class="label">[123]</span></a> Leer, throw glances.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_124_124" id="Footnote_124_124"></a><a href="#FNanchor_124_124"><span class="label">[124]</span></a> See page <a href="#Page_307">307</a>.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_125_125" id="Footnote_125_125"></a><a href="#FNanchor_125_125"><span class="label">[125]</span></a> In the Vision of Mirza (<i>Spectator</i>, No. 159), Addison pictured
the Happy Islands which were the abode of good men after death.
"Does life appear miserable, that gives thee opportunities of
earning such a reward?"</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_126_126" id="Footnote_126_126"></a><a href="#FNanchor_126_126"><span class="label">[126]</span></a> In Terence, Glycerium comes to Athens with Chrysis, a courtezan,
her supposed sister, and Pamphilus makes her acquaintance
at Chrysis's house.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_127_127" id="Footnote_127_127"></a><a href="#FNanchor_127_127"><span class="label">[127]</span></a> This character has no prototype in Terence's <i>Andria</i>.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_128_128" id="Footnote_128_128"></a><a href="#FNanchor_128_128"><span class="label">[128]</span></a> These two operas, by G. B. Bononcini, were produced in 1722,
with words by Rolli. In <i>Griselda</i>, Anastasia Robinson took the
part of the heroine, and it is said that she thus completed her conquest
of the Earl of Peterborough, who married her many years
later.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_129_129" id="Footnote_129_129"></a><a href="#FNanchor_129_129"><span class="label">[129]</span></a> See page <a href="#Page_270">270</a>.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_130_130" id="Footnote_130_130"></a><a href="#FNanchor_130_130"><span class="label">[130]</span></a> There is nothing in Terence's <i>Andria</i> to correspond to the
incidents in this act; and throughout the remainder of the play
there is no resemblance except the general idea of the story.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_131_131" id="Footnote_131_131"></a><a href="#FNanchor_131_131"><span class="label">[131]</span></a> Steele had already described this scene in the <i>Guardian</i> for
June 20, 1713:—"I happened the other day to pass by a gentleman's
house, and saw the most flippant scene of low love that I
have ever observed. The maid was rubbing the windows within
side of the house, and her humble servant the footman, was so
happy a man as to be employed in cleaning the same glass on the
side towards the street. The wench began with the greatest
severity of aspect imaginable, and breathing on the glass, followed
it with a dry cloth; her opposite observed her, and fetching a deep
sigh, as if it were his last, with a very disconsolate air did the same
on his side of the window. He still worked on and languished,
until at last his fair one smiled, but covered herself, and spreading
the napkin in her hand, concealed herself from her admirer, while
he took pains, as it were, to work through all that intercepted their
meeting. This pretty contest held for four or five large panes of
glass, until at last the waggery was turned into an humorous way
of breathing in each other's faces, and catching the impression.
The gay creatures were thus loving and pleasing their imaginations
with their nearness and distance, until the windows were so
transparent that the beauty of the female made the man-servant
impatient of beholding it, and the whole house besides being abroad,
he ran in, and they romped out of my sight."</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_132_132" id="Footnote_132_132"></a><a href="#FNanchor_132_132"><span class="label">[132]</span></a> Steele's monetary troubles made him personally familiar about
the time he wrote this play with indentures tripartite, quadrupartite,
and otherwise (See <i>Life of Steele</i>, 1889, II., 291, 299, &amp;c.).</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_133_133" id="Footnote_133_133"></a><a href="#FNanchor_133_133"><span class="label">[133]</span></a> This scene is, of course, entirely original.</p></div>

<div class="footnote">

<p><a name="Footnote_134_134" id="Footnote_134_134"></a><a href="#FNanchor_134_134"><span class="label">[134]</span></a> Patron of cock-fighting.</p></div>


