<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="epilogue" epub:type="epilogue z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Epilogue</h2>
			<p>By <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Welsted.</p>
			<p>Intended to be spoken by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Indiana</b>.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Our author, whom entreaties cannot move,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Spite of the dear coquetry that you love,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Swears he’ll not frustrate (so he plainly means)</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By a loose Epilogue, his decent scenes.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Is it not, sirs, hard fate I meet to-day,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To keep me rigid still beyond the play?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And yet I’m saved a world of pains that way.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I now can look, I now can move at ease,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Nor need I torture these poor limbs to please;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Nor with the hand or foot attempt surprise,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Nor wrest my features, nor fatigue my eyes:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Bless me! what freakish gambols have I played!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>What motions tried, and wanton looks betrayed!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Out of pure kindness all! to over-rule</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The threatened hiss, and screen some scribbling fool.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With more respect I’m entertained to-night:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Our author thinks I can with ease delight.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My artless looks while modest graces arm,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He says, I need but to appear, and charm.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A wife so formed, by these examples bred,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Pours joy and gladness round the marriage bed;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Soft source of comfort, kind relief from care,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And ‘ ’tis her least perfection to be fair.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The nymph with Indiana’s worth who vies,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A nation will behold with Bevil’s eyes.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
