<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="prologue" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prologue</h2>
			<p>By <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Welsted.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-114" id="noteref-114" epub:type="noteref">114</a></p>
			<p>Spoken by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilks.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>To win your hearts and to secure your praise,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The comic writers strive by various ways;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By subtle stratagems they act their game,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And leave untried no avenue to fame.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>One writes the spouse a beating from his wife,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And says each stroke was copied from the life.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Some fix all wit and humour in grimace,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And make a livelihood of Pinkey’s<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-115" id="noteref-115" epub:type="noteref">115</a> face.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Here, one gay show and costly habits tries,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Confiding to the judgment of your eyes;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Another smuts his scene (a cunning shaver),</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sure of the rakes’ and of the wenches’ favour.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Oft have these arts prevailed, and one may guess,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If practised o’er again, would find success.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But the bold sage⁠—the poet of tonight⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By new and desperate rules resolved to write;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Fain would he give more just applauses rise,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And please by wit that scorns the aids of vice;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The praise he seeks from worthier motives springs,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Such praise as praise to those that give it brings.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>							</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Your aid most humbly sought, then, Britons lend,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And liberal mirth like liberal men defend.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>No more let ribaldry, with licence writ,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Usurp the name of eloquence or wit;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>No more let lawless farce uncensured go,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The lewd dull gleanings of a Smithfield show.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-116" id="noteref-116" epub:type="noteref">116</a></span>
								<br/>
								<span>‘ ’Tis yours with breeding to refine the age,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To chasten wit, and moralise the stage.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>							</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ye modest, wise and good, ye fair, ye brave,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Tonight the champion of your virtues save;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Redeem from long contempt the comic name,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And judge politely for your country’s fame.</span>
								<br/>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
